Researchers have found that differences in how genes are regulated within a population can cause different phenotypes. These differences can be caused by changes in the DNA sequence of genes and their regulatory regions. Recent studies have shown that changes in the 3′ region of genes, known as 3′ UTRs, can also affect gene regulation and cause differences in phenotypes. However, there is still much that is not understood about how changes in 3′ UTRs affect gene regulation. In this study, researchers used 3′-end RNA-seq to study how changes in 3′ UTRs affect gene regulation and expression. They found that 3′ UTRs contain regulatory elements that control the length of the transcript made from a gene and that these differences can affect gene expression and its variation across different individuals. By studying 3′ UTRs, researchers can better understand the genetic basis of different phenotypes.
LASIV is a type of virus that causes AIDS in monkeys. In the past, some monkeys were infected with a weakened version of LASIV called SIVΔnef, and it was found that they were protected from a stronger version of the virus when they were later challenged. Many studies have found that SIVΔnef-induced protection varies depending on the viral strain used and the genetics of the monkey. Some research suggests that humoral immunity (antibodies) may play a role in protection, but other studies suggest that CD8 T cells (a type of immune cell) may be more important. The researchers in this study wanted to learn more about how SIVΔnef and the immune response interact to protect the monkeys. They used a type of technology called deep sequencing to find out how the virus changed (or evolved) over time in the monkeys. They also looked at how the CD8 T cell response changed over time by fine-mapping the specific epitopes (small pieces of the virus that the CD8 T cells recognize). They found that the virus evolved over time and that the CD8 T cell response also evolved in response to the changing virus. This resulted in a CD8 T cell response with increased specificity, wider breadth (meaning it recognized more different epitopes), rearranged immunodominance (meaning the most important epitopes changed), and enhanced depth (meaning it recognized more specific epitopes within each broad immunodominant epitope). These findings suggest that the immune response and the virus evolve together to protect the monkeys from infection.
The fungus Candida albicans is a common cause of infection worldwide, especially in people with weakened immune systems. These infections often occur in mucosal surfaces, such as the oral mucosa. The epithelium and leukocytes work together to fight off these infections. Neutrophils are the main type of leukocytes and play a critical role in preventing the fungus from invading deeper into the body. A recent study found that a protein called interleukin-17 (IL-17) does not play a role in regulating the neutrophil response to Candida albicans in the oral mucosa. However, the study also found that a different protein called interleukin-1 (IL-1) is critical for the neutrophil response in the oral mucosa. IL-1 is produced by the epithelium and helps regulate the production of neutrophil-chemotactic factors and the release of more neutrophils from the bone marrow to the site of infection.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a parasitic disease that causes physical and economic burden to people worldwide. It affects 1.3 billion people and causes 40 million people to suffer from severe swelling of the limbs and testicles. To eliminate this disease, a Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF) was started in 2000. People in 83 countries received mass drug administration (MDA) of anti-LF drugs (albendazole+ivermectin or albendazole+diethylcarbamazine) to eliminate LF. The drugs were donated by their manufacturers GlaxoSmithKline and Merck & Co., Inc. In 8 years, over 1.9 billion MDA treatments were given to 570 million people, preventing 6 million cases of hydrocele and 4 million cases of lymphedema. This resulted in 32 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted and quality-of-life benefits achieved. However, the financial cost and loss of income for people protected from LF due to the first 8 years of the GPELF has not been analyzed. This study estimates that the economic benefits gained by LF infected and non-infected individuals in MDA-treated areas is US$21.8 billion, and an additional US$2.2 billion in health systems savings. Though this study has not included the value of ancillary benefits on other concurrent infections, it still provides a better understanding of the GPELF's overall impact on one of society's most debilitating and widespread tropical diseases.
Gaucher disease ( GD ) is a genetic disorder that affects the brain and nervous system. GD is caused by mutations in a gene called GBA . These mutations reduce the activity of an enzyme called GCase, which helps break down fat molecules in the brain and body. This leads to the build-up of fat molecules in brain cells called Gaucher cells, which can cause swelling and damage to the brain. GD can be divided into three types, each with different symptoms. The perinatal lethal type is the most severe form and can result in hydrops fetalis and congenital ichthyosis. These symptoms are caused by almost no GCase enzymatic activity. Because current treatments don't work well for the brain symptoms, there is a need to understand more about how GD causes damage to the brain. Parkinson's disease ( PD ) is a disease that causes movement problems. Researchers have found that having mutations in the GBA gene can increase the risk of developing PD. People with type 1 GD also have a higher chance of developing PD later in life. Studies have shown that in PD patients with GBA mutations, there are abnormal proteins called Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in the brain. These proteins are the hallmark of sporadic PD. It is not clear how GBA mutations cause PD, but research suggests that they can cause the brain to have problems with waste disposal and protein buildup. Medaka ( Oryzias latipes ) are a type of fish that are often used as an animal model for disease research. They are easy to handle, have a short generation time, produce many offspring, and have several different breeds. Medaka have an advantage over other animal models because they have α-syn, a protein that is important for PD. Researchers have made genetic medaka models of PD that have movement problems and selectively lose certain types of brain cells. Considering these findings, medaka have the potential to be a new animal model of PD. In this study, researchers made GBA nonsense mutant medaka and found that they had GD symptoms, including swelling in the brain and body. They also had a lot of α-syn buildup in their brains, which can cause PD. The researchers found that the buildup of α-syn in the brains of the GBA nonsense mutant medaka was mostly caused by the mutation in GBA, and not by the α-syn that is naturally found in medaka. This new information about how GBA mutations cause α-syn buildup in the brain may help researchers understand more about PD and develop new treatments.
Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) is a bacterium that causes food poisoning in humans and animals. Researchers have been studying Lm for decades to understand how the immune system responds to it. When Lm enters a host cell, it escapes from the phagosome into the cytosol of the host cell. This is important because it helps Lm grow and spread between cells. Inside the cytosol, Lm expresses a protein called ActA that helps it spread from cell to cell. ActA-deficient mutants still trigger an immune response, but they don't provide protective immunity. Mutants that can't produce a protein called LLO don't escape from the phagosome, and they trigger an immune response, but they don't provide protective immunity. When Lm is inside the host cell cytosol, it triggers a unique immune response that includes the production of type I IFN. The immune response to Lm helps control early bacterial growth and recruits and arms innate immune effectors such as macrophages and neutrophils. The immune response also helps shape the adaptive immune response, which provides long-lived protection against future Lm infections.
Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common type of glaucoma that can cause blindness and is caused by the death of nerve cells in the back of the eye. Researchers have found that a genetic mutation in the SIX1/SIX6 locus is associated with POAG and a thinning of the nerve cells in the eye. They found a mutation that may increase the SIX6 protein and further research is needed to understand how this mutation affects the nerve cells in the eye.
Clostridium difficile is a type of bacteria that can cause severe diarrhea and other health problems. The bacteria are commonly spread through contact with contaminated surfaces or objects. One way that the bacteria spread is by producing spores, which are dormant forms of the bacteria that can survive for a long time. When the spores come into contact with certain chemicals, such as bile salts, they germinate and turn into actively growing bacteria. The bacteria can then produce toxins that can damage the intestinal lining and cause diarrhea. One of the most important ways that the bacteria can change their behavior is through a process called phase variation. Phase variation allows the bacteria to switch between different forms that are better suited to different environments. In the case of C. difficile, phase variation can affect how the bacteria move and how they produce toxins. This can help the bacteria to survive and spread in the environment, as well as cause disease in humans.
Spores are dormant cells that are highly resistant to physical and chemical conditions, and are formed by certain types of bacteria. Endosporulation is a process that produces spores. The process has been studied extensively in Bacillus subtilis, a non-pathogenic sporeforming bacteria. In B. subtilis, sporulation is a multi-step process that involves the formation of a forespore and engulfment of the forespore by the mother cell, followed by maturation of the spore. A master regulatory protein, Spo0A, controls entry into sporulation. Four cell type-specific sigma factors control gene expression in the forespore and mother cell, and are activated in a specific sequence during sporulation. The sigma factors control the expression of genes involved in morphogenesis and spore structure formation. Recent studies have revealed differences in the roles and timing of activation of the sigma factors during sporulation in several Clostridial species. In this study, we used cytological and genetic methodologies to define the sequence of sporulation events in Clostridium difficile, a pathogenic sporeforming bacteria. We also used a fluorescent reporter to study gene expression at the single cell level and to correlate the expression and activity of the sporulation-specific sigma factors with the course of morphogenesis. Our study provides a platform for additional studies of the regulatory network and the expression and function of the effector genes, which may be related to host colonization and transmission.
Protein phosphorylation is a common modification in nature that changes a protein's activity by altering its electrostatic properties or spatial structure. The phosphorylation of the same protein at multiple different amino acid residues is also very common. The differences in function between single-site and multisite phosphorylation are not completely understood. Multisite proteins are involved in regulatory processes that can benefit from the presence of bistability, hysteresis, or limit cycles. A reasonable hypothesis is that multisite phosphorylation can give rise to ultrasensitive dose responses. In this paper, we describe a simple mechanistic approach for modeling multisite allosteric proteins named modified fraction (MF) modeling. This approach is capable of describing ultrasensitive dynamics without introducing a large number of additional variables. Under this framework, we keep track of the fraction of modified sites in the protein, and the concentration of active protein over time is estimated from this information. The protein is activated in a way that requires the phosphorylation of several but not all of the sites. The approximation becomes increasingly precise as the number of sites increases. In a sense, this mechanism can be considered a one-variable, quasi-steady state reduction of a model similar to the Monod-Wyman-Changeux allosteric system. The MF framework can also be extended to other types of multisite modification such as ligand binding, multisite transcription factor regulation, multisite methylation or acetylation, and ubiquitination. In this paper, we describe a detailed mechanistic model of a cell size checkpoint, which controls the timing of the switch from polar to isotropic growth of a bud in budding yeast. The variables are illustrated in Figure 1, and we use the modified fraction approach to model the cell size checkpoint. The simulation results of the modified fraction approach are compared with those of a detailed mechanistic model. We analyze the mathematical properties of the proposed checkpoint signaling pathway and hypothesize that this interaction pathway has the capacity to produce a bistable signal responsible for a sudden switch from polar to isotropic growth once the bud has undergone sufficient polar growth. The model presents several desirable qualities for a checkpoint, such as a clear downstream signal when a sufficient polar bud growth has occurred.
In the world of biology, many different proteins, genes, and metabolites work together to form regulatory pathways that are controlled by environmental cues and signaling molecules. These pathways help regulate various cellular activities. However, it can be difficult to determine how biological systems can accurately transmit information over a large range of time. One important factor in determining the accuracy of a signal is the connectivity of the network. In particular, negative and positive feedback motifs are important regulatory mechanisms that can affect the flow of information. Negative feedback loops prevent the signal from becoming too strong, while positive feedback loops amplify the signal. In this study, the authors examined the network connectivity in a bacterial system called quorum sensing. This system uses a combination of negative and positive feedback loops to communicate between bacterial cells. The authors used a combination of experimental work and mathematical modeling to examine the behavior of this system and the interplay of the different regulatory motifs. They identified a new regulatory element that was not previously suggested and used it to build a model of the system. Their model accurately captured the behavior of the intact system and its sub-systems. The authors revealed the importance of a well-regulated network in which a balance between the strengths of different feedback motifs is required for proper functioning.
The authors are describing a study that aimed to understand how being infected with a type of worm called Schistosoma haematobium affects the severity of malaria infections. The study was conducted in an area where malaria and schistosomiasis are common. The authors wanted to know if having both of these infections at the same time made malaria infections worse, and if having soil-transmitted helminths (worms) at the same time affected this relationship. The authors used data from a study of school-aged children in the area to try to answer these questions. They found that being infected with schistosomiasis did not seem to make malaria infections worse, and that having soil-transmitted helminths did not change this relationship.
The balance between inflammation and anti-inflammatory responses is important for the body's effective response to infectious pathogens while minimizing damage to the tissue. Sometimes, however, this balance can be disrupted, leading to an excessive suppression of protective pro-inflammatory responses, making the body more vulnerable to infections. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is an example of such dysregulation, as seen in the infection with the protozoan parasites Leishmania donovani and L. infantum/chagasi, which cause spleen infections and immunodeficiency in the chronic stage. Leishmania preferentially infects macrophages, but can also be found in other cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), neutrophils, and fibroblasts. Infection with L. donovani causes disruption of the splenic microarchitecture and loss of stromal cells, mediated by tumor necrosis factor (TNF) overexpression, which is also characteristic of VL. Additionally, TNF deficiency mice infected with L. donovani have a lower IL-10 mRNA accumulation in the spleen than their wild-type counterparts, suggesting that TNF is a positive regulator of IL-10 production. Recent studies have shown that the inflammatory response following L. donovani infection is largely mediated by the transcription factor IRF-5, which can be activated by TLR7 and TLR9 via the MyD88 signaling pathway and/or directly by viral infections and Type I interferon. This transcription factor is responsible for activating genes encoding various key inflammatory cytokines.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a serious public health problem in many parts of the world, including Brazil. However, the disease is often neglected and there are few effective and affordable treatments. In Brazil, VL has spread from rural areas to large cities in the northeast, southeast, and center-west regions. During the first decade of the 21st century, more than 40,000 cases of VL and 2,500 deaths were reported in the country, and there was no significant reduction in fatality rates. Treatment options for VL in Brazil are pentavalent antimonial compounds and formulations of amphotericin B, but these have limitations and may not always be effective. Prognostic factors associated with VL can help identify patients at highest risk of an unfavorable outcome and guide treatment decisions. A systematic review of studies published in Brazil has identified potential predictors of death and adverse outcomes of American VL, and proposes improvements for future research.
Leishmaniasis are diseases caused by parasites that can only survive inside living cells. There are many different species of these parasites, and some of them can make people very sick. These diseases can be spread by tiny flying insects called sandflies. There are two types of leishmaniasis: cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL). CL is when the parasites only infect the skin and cause sores, while VL is when the parasites infect the organs inside the body and can be fatal. There are many different species of leishmaniasis parasites, and some of them are more dangerous than others. Antimony is a medicine that is used to treat these diseases, but some of the parasites are resistant to antimony. Resistance means that the parasites are not affected by the medicine and can continue to cause disease. In this study, scientists tested the susceptibility of leishmaniasis parasites from different parts of Algeria to antimony. They found that some of the parasites were resistant to antimony, which means that they were not affected by the medicine and could continue to cause disease. This is important information because it can help doctors and other medical professionals choose the best treatment for leishmaniasis patients.
Crohn's disease (CD) is a condition in which the lining of the small or large bowel is inflamed. The lining of the bowel is home to a variety of microorganisms, including bacteria. Studies have found that the bacterial population in CD patients is different from that in healthy people, and that some species of bacteria may be linked to CD. One type of bacteria that is often found in CD patients is called adherent-invasive E. coli (AIEC). Although AIEC is thought to be a benign member of the gut microbiota, recent studies have suggested that it may play a role in CD. To better understand the role of AIEC in CD, researchers have developed two new models to study how CD patients who develop gastroenteritis (inflammation of the stomach and intestines) respond to different types of bacteria. The researchers found that gastroenteritis caused an increase in the number of AIEC bacteria in the colon of the mice, and that this increase was associated with worsening of the disease. The researchers were able to block the increase in AIEC bacteria by sensitizing the bacteria to the host's immune system, which improved the disease. These findings suggest that AIEC bacteria may play a role in worsening CD in patients who develop gastroenteritis, and that treatments that reduce the number of AIEC bacteria or activate the host's immune system against AIEC may be effective in treating CD.
Gametes are the cells that reproduce in plants. These gametes are produced inside small plants called gametophytes. Arabidopsis, a type of plant, produces its gametophytes from a single spore. The gametophyte then divides into eight nuclei and cellularizes, forming four different cell types (Figure 1). Two of these types are the egg and sperm cells. These two cells are fertilized by one sperm cell each, forming the embryo and the endosperm. The other two cell types are accessory cells that surround the gametic cells. Two of these accessory cells attract the pollen tube to the egg cell, while the other two are located at the opposite pole and degenerate before fertilization. The process of determining which cells become gametic and which become accessory is not well understood. In this study, we took advantage of a new marker that allowed us to observe the egg cell more easily. We found that a combination of factors determines which cells become gametic and which become accessory. This process ensures that the gametic cells are formed while preventing the formation of excess gametic cells.
The use of shoes has been linked to a lower risk of developing certain diseases, such as podoconiosis and chronic larva migrans. However, the role of shoes in the prevention of other diseases such as hookworm and Buruli ulcer is inconsistent. There is a lack of research on the impact of behaviors related to footwear and their effect on NTDs. In southern Ethiopia, shoes are being distributed to children with the intention of preventing podoconiosis. This non-communicable form of elephantiasis occurs from long-term exposure to red clay soils. To understand why children might not wear shoes, we used two conceptual models to guide our efforts. First, we relied on the PRECEDE-PROCEED model, which suggests beginning the process by assessing social, behavioral, environmental, educational and ecological issues and needs that may influence whether and when children wear shoes. Second, we considered social cognitive theory of self-regulation, which argues for the importance of targeting individuals' beliefs and attitudes about shoe wearing, how these beliefs influence perceived capabilities to prevent podoconiosis, and whether wearing shoes can be effective in reducing their risk for the condition. Our qualitative study aimed to gain a deeper understanding of the barriers to consistent use of shoes in a rural setting. This information is valuable for investigators designing future studies to assess the association between shoe use and incidence of NTDs, and for those developing shoe-related prevention programs.
In neurons, proteins are sorted to different parts of the cell. These proteins are transported to different areas of the cell through rafts, which are small and dynamic microdomains of lipids and proteins that float freely in the membrane. The proteins that are sorted into these rafts are influenced by the levels of cholesterol and sphingolipids. This has been shown to be essential for the sorting of proteins into the axon, which is a key part of neurons. Viruses that infect neurons, such as herpesviruses, also use these rafts to transport their proteins and capsids. A protein called Us9 from the pseudorabies virus is important for the sorting of these viral proteins and capsids into the axon.
In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanism behind the nongenetic heterogeneity of yeast growth and stress tolerance. The variability of microcolony growth rates differs between natural isolates of budding yeast, indicating that there is a genetic basis of differences in nongenetic heterogeneity. The variability of microcolony growth rates could be due to nongenetic heterogeneity in Msn2 and Msn4 activity or growth rate. Therefore, we aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism that generates nongenetic heterogeneity in Msn2 and Msn4 activity or growth rate. Our starting point was the regulation of TSL1, which is controlled by the paralogous transcription factors Msn2 and Msn4. The activities of Msn2 and Msn4 are controlled by intracellular cAMP levels via the Ras/cAMP/PKA pathway. However, the pathway by which heat stress activates Msn2 and Msn4 is unknown. As glucose starvation does, heat stress leads to greater nuclear residency of Msn2 and Msn4, but this effect of heat stress is accompanied by Msn2 and Msn4 hyperphosphorylation, which can be blocked by addition of cAMP. This result implies that sensing of heat stress does not go through PKA but instead involves other kinases. Nonetheless, because Msn2 and Msn4 targets are implicated in protecting cells against a variety of environmental stresses, including nutrient starvation and heat shock, it could be that fluctuations in PKA activity induce heterogeneity in Msn2 activity among unstressed cells that in turn creates heterogeneity in susceptibility to acute stress. Therefore, we tested our hypothesis using genetic analysis of the Ras/cAMP/PKA pathway in combination with single-cell assays of cell growth, gene expression, and stress tolerance. Our study not only contributes to our basic understanding of nongenetic heterogeneity but also points to an approach to defeating a bet-hedging strategy: increasing cAMP levels by administering a cAMP analog reduces the slower-growing fraction of the population and renders the population more susceptible to acute stress. This type of one-two punch might provide a useful treatment approach in cases where slow-growing subpopulations of pathogens or tumor cells cause relapse.
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) has recently spread from Africa and Asia to the Americas, causing an estimated 1.7 million cases of severe, disabling arthralgia. The strain of CHIKV that has arrived in the Americas is from the Asian lineage and does not contain adaptive mutations. However, the mosquito species Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus are prevalent throughout many parts of North and South America. These conditions provide an opportunity for CHIKV to evolve in humans and adapt to its new environment. Using deep-sequencing technologies, we have analyzed the genetic diversity of CHIKV strains directly from human samples collected between week 52 of 2013 and week 5 of 2014. While no significant consensus changes were observed within a short period of time, we have identified a 3’ untranslated genome region (UTR) duplication. This duplication may have been missed by the initial sequencing of the ongoing epidemic in the Americas. It seems unique among the circulating CHIKV strains around the world.
The mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a central pathway that controls the way our cells function, including their growth, proliferation, and survival. It is implicated in human diseases such as tumors, obesity, epilepsy, autism, and neurodegeneration. mTOR is regulated by different factors at various organelles in the cell. The mTOR protein forms two complexes called mTORC1 and mTORC2 through interactions with other proteins, and these mTOR interacting proteins play important roles in regulating mTOR activity. One of these proteins is DEPTOR, which is an inhibitor of mTOR signaling found only in vertebrates. It is phosphorylated and ubiquitylated when mTORC1 signaling pathway is activated by serum stimulation, which results in its degradation. We have identified a previously unannotated vertebrate-specific gene called Ubtor as a functional player in regulating cell growth and mTOR signaling. Ubtor is found in hippocampal neurons and PC12 cells, and its levels are reduced when these cells are grown in culture. Ubtor depletion promotes neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons and cell growth in HEK293T and U87MG cells. On the other hand, Ubtor overexpression suppresses colony formation in HEK293T and T24 cells. We also found that Ubtor interacts with DEPTOR and mTOR complexes, and regulates DEPTOR’s ubiquitination. Lastly, we have demonstrated that Ubtor regulates cell growth and neoplasia via mTOR signaling using both zebrafish and mouse models.
In this study, researchers created a protein interaction map for Trypanosoma brucei, a parasite that causes the fatal human African trypanosomiasis (HAT). The map is based on four high-resolution fractionation experiments and mass spectrometry analysis. The map contains 866 protein groups, including many hypothetical and unannotated proteins. Clustering of the map led to the identification of 128 complexes. Researchers used the map to identify novel factors involved in the mitochondrial post-transcriptional regulation of T. brucei and validated their findings by several independent experiments. The map provides a useful resource for researchers and could lead to new biological hypotheses and experimental leads.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by infection with the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). This infection can occur in the lungs and in lymph nodes (LNs), which are small organs that help fight infection. Most studies of Mtb infection have focused on the lungs, but recent research has shown that Mtb also commonly infects LNs. This infection can disrupt the normal structure and function of LNs, and may help Mtb to persist in the body and cause disease. New research on Mtb infection in LNs is helping us to better understand how TB progresses and how to treat it.
In this article, the authors describe a collection of 47 microsporidian species they found infecting wild nematodes. Microsporidia are fungus-like parasites that infect a wide range of hosts, including humans. Nematodes are small, soil-dwelling worms that are commonly used as biological models in scientific research. The authors describe the symptoms and effects of microsporidian infection in these nematodes, as well as the methods they used to isolate and identify the microsporidian species. They also provide information on the geographical distribution of each species and their host specificity. Overall, the study highlights the diversity and prevalence of microsporidian infections in wild nematodes, and the potential for these parasites to impact the ecology and evolution of these organisms.
Chemokine receptors are a type of receptor on the surface of cells that help control the movement of immune cells in response to certain signals. These receptors can form dimers, or pairs of receptors, when bound to a ligand, which can affect their function. Some chemokine receptors have been shown to require cholesterol in order to properly function. In this study, we used molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the spontaneous assembly of three chemokine receptors: CXCR4, CCR5, and CCR2. We found that the homodimerization of these receptors can be influenced by cholesterol and that they can form heterodimers with each other.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a severe disease that causes fever, loss of weight, organomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen), and anemia. It can be fatal if left untreated. However, some patients can have subclinical leishmaniasis, which means they have the disease but are not showing any symptoms. This type of leishmaniasis was first discovered by Leishman in 1906 and has since been recognized by other groups of scientists. The proportion of patients with subclinical leishmaniasis to those with the classical symptoms varies depending on the geographic location and population factors such as nutrition and genetics. Diagnosis of leishmaniasis is typically based on a patient's immune response to the parasite, as it is difficult to detect the parasite in tissue examinations or cultures of affected tissues. In our area, we have diagnosed 160 patients who have immune deficiency and underwent extensive laboratory tests without any diagnosis. Our objective in this report is to inform scientists that systemic leishmaniasis can have a variety of different signs and symptoms, not just the classic ones.
The publicly available dbSNP database contains millions of unique human genetic variations. However, few of these are associated with a particular disease. When conducting association studies, researchers often produce hundreds of potential disease-causing variations that need to be "characterized." One way of doing this is by using computational methods that examine non-synonymous changes in human proteins. However, it is difficult to determine whether a change will cause a disease, as the relationship between protein function and disease is complex. To solve this problem, we examined the genome-wide distribution of sequence variants along paralogous proteins. We also compiled a dataset of known disease-causing variations and mapped them to their gene annotations and protein sequences. We found that sequence variants at aligned amino acid pairs occur more frequently than expected by chance, suggesting that similar functional constraints on paralogous protein sequences result in coordinated distributions of both disease and non-disease-causing variants along their lengths. Additionally, if one member of a variant-pair is disease-causing, its partner is likely to be disease-causing as well. Thus, knowledge of a sequence variant's paralogous relationships is useful for identifying novel disease-causing alleles.
In this study, the researchers compared the transcriptomes of parasites causing severe malaria to those causing uncomplicated malaria using RNA sequencing technology. They found that parasites causing severe malaria had a unique transcriptional profile involving genes involved in central carbon metabolism, folate biosynthesis, histone methylation, chaperone function, and surface expression of PfEMP1. Specifically, they found that expression of a conserved subset of PfEMP1s was associated with severe malaria. These PfEMP1s are expressed early in life and recognized more widely by sera from semi-immune children than PfEMP1s expressed by parasites causing uncomplicated disease. The authors believe that their findings have relevance to efforts to design vaccines targeting severe disease.
Scientists are having a hard time finding a vaccine that can stop people from getting HIV. HIV has different ways of avoiding the immune system's attack, and it keeps replicating even when there is a strong immune response. To make a vaccine that works, it might need to stop infection completely or make the immune response better than the one from infection. A promising approach is to use adeno-associated virus (AAV) to deliver antibodies with the ability to neutralize HIV. This method is like classical vaccination, but it doesn't rely on the host's immune system. The antibodies can last for a long time, and they have been shown to be safe and effective in people. There are more than a dozen antibodies that can neutralize over 90% of HIV strains, and they have different specificities. In a previous study, antibodies that were like molecules were delivered to monkeys using AAV, and some monkeys seemed to be protected from being infected with SIV. However, the SIV strain used in that study is easy to neutralize, and some of the monkeys developed antibodies that were attacking the delivered antibodies. It was unclear from that study how much this might have been caused by the fact that the antibodies delivered were not a real form of IgG. In this study, the scientists delivered two full-length IgG antibodies to monkeys using AAV. These antibodies were neutralizing antibodies that didn't work against SIV, but they still might offer some protection against infection.
Protein machines, which can be enzymes, ion pumps or molecular motors, are important for the functioning of biological cells. These machines operate based on slow conformational motions powered by external energy supply. In molecular motors, binding of ATP and its subsequent hydrolysis induce functional mechanochemical motions which are essential for their operation. These motions are conformational relaxation processes and can be large-scale, but they are often considered in the framework of linear response theory and the normal mode approximation. However, there is no general justification for this assumption and relaxation processes in complex dynamical systems can be strongly nonlinear. In this study, we analyze the conformational relaxation processes associated with ligand binding and hydrolysis in two motor proteins, myosin V and kinesin KIF1A. Our investigations, performed in the framework of the elastic network model, reveal that nonlinearity is characteristic for both macromolecules and the normal mode description is not really applicable for any of them. Despite the nonlinearity, well-defined conformational relaxation paths are found in both motor proteins.
In this study, the authors explain the difference between two types of endocytosis: clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and caveolae-mediated endocytosis. CME is the best understood endocytosis pathway and involves the clathrin-coated pits. On the other hand, caveolae are cup-shaped invaginations of the cell surface and are also considered as endocytic vehicles. The authors also talk about the importance of various proteins involved in these pathways and their functions. They also mention the importance of cholesterol and lipids in both of these pathways. The authors further talk about the crosstalk between these two endocytosis pathways. They mention that the over-expression of caveolin can inhibit dynamin-independent internalization of cholera toxin subunit b and fluid-phase markers. The authors also mention that CD44 is a specific marker of CLIC (clathrin-independent carriers) endocytosis pathway and have used it to study crosstalk between CLIC and caveolae. They have found that there is complex crosstalk between these two membrane systems at multiple levels. Overall, the study provides insights into the mechanisms of these two endocytosis pathways and their crosstalk.
The paper is about two types of proteins that help bacteria respond to their environment. These proteins are called "Two-Component Signaling" (TCS) proteins. TCS proteins have two parts: a membrane-bound protein that senses the environment and a protein in the cell that receives the signal. The paper is about the second part of the TCS protein, called the "Receiver" (REC) domain. There are two types of REC domains: "canonical" and "atypical". The paper is mostly about the "atypical" REC domains. These REC domains are different from "canonical" REC domains in that they don't have all the same features, and some of them don't have the part that is normally phosphorylated. The paper describes some of the different types of "atypical" REC domains and their functions. The paper also describes the structure of the REC domain of one protein called "RitR" and how it works, even though it doesn't have the part that is usually phosphorylated.
Oncolytic viruses are a new type of anticancer agent that are low in toxicity and have little impact on the quality of life of patients. Oncolytic herpes simplex viruses (oHSVs) are particularly effective in treating cancer. OncovexGM-CSF, an oHSV, is approved to treat metastatic melanoma. The Clinical trials.gov website lists 22 ongoing or recently completed trials using oHSVs. One of the benefits of oHSVs is their ability to boost the immune response to the tumor and act like a vaccine without the need to identify tumor-specific or patient-specific neoantigens. In combination with checkpoint inhibitors, oHSVs enhance the efficacy of blockade therapy. They can also be engineered to express anti-checkpoint antibodies. To make oHSVs safer, they are often attenuated. Attenuation can be achieved through genetic engineering or natural mutations. Attenuation makes oHSVs preferentially infect cancer cells, but not exclusively. Attenuation also reduces their ability to replicate and to cause harm. To address safety concerns, oHSVs are often engineered to express cytokines or checkpoint inhibitors. The IL-12 cytokine, in particular, has shown promise in clinical trials when administered through oHSVs. An alternative approach to attenuation is to retarget oHSVs to cancer cells. This allows oHSVs to be fully virulent in cancer cells and causes no harm in tumor-free mice. R-115, an IL-12-armed HER2-retargeted oHSV, has been found to inhibit the growth of primary tumors, completely prevent the growth of untreated tumors, elicit a strong immune response, and induce a vaccine-like response in mice.
HIV is a serious disease that continues to be a challenge for global public health. More than 36 million people are currently living with HIV, with over 2 million new infections and 1 million AIDS-related deaths per year. A safe and effective HIV vaccine is an important research priority, but previous vaccine attempts have not been successful. Recombinant viral vectors are one important platform for HIV vaccine development, and several trials have tested candidate HIV vaccines based on human Ad5 vector. However, these trials have failed to show efficacy. Our study aims to understand the role of CD4 T cells in HIV vaccination, and we compare the susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T cells induced by ALVAC, another important HIV vaccine vector, to Ad5-specific CD4 T cells. We found that ALVAC-specific CD4 T cells are substantially less susceptible to HIV infection compared to Ad5-specific CD4 T cells. We also compared the proliferative response of vector-specific CD8 vs . CD4 T cells, and found that Ad5-specific CD8 T cells proliferate more robustly than Ad5-specific CD4 T cells, while ALVAC-specific CD8 T cells proliferate less robustly than ALVAC-specific CD4 T cells. Overall, our study suggests that understanding the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T-cell populations induced by different vaccine vectors may provide new insights into our understanding of host immunity in HIV vaccination.
The study focuses on the way that mammalian females silence one of their two X chromosomes in each somatic cell, a process called X inactivation. This process varies among species and can occur in different ways. In some species, the paternally inherited X chromosome is universally silenced, while in others, each somatic cell can express either the maternally or the paternally inherited X. Recent studies have revealed that some species practice biased X inactivation, meaning that they preferentially silence one of the two X chromosomes. The study explores the evolutionary mechanisms that could account for this variation in X inactivation patterns and suggests that selection for masking the fitness costs of carrying deleterious alleles might favor the evolution of random X inactivation. However, the study emphasizes that the specific properties of sex-differential selection and inheritance that govern X chromosome evolution make it difficult to apply population genetic models to this case. The study therefore developed a mathematical model of X inactivation evolution and used this model to identify the biological conditions that favor different X inactivation strategies. The results suggest that selection on mammalian X inactivation strategies is primarily mediated by the interaction between dominance and sex-differential selection. The study also examines whether sex-differential selection might favor the evolution of biased X inactivation patterns and predicts the magnitude of biases likely to evolve. The results indicate that conditions for evolving biased inactivation patterns are extremely permissive.
ZAP is a protein that was discovered in rats as a way for the body to fight against certain viruses. It has been shown to have antiviral properties against many different types of viruses, including retroviruses, filoviruses, alphaviruses, and hepatitis B virus. However, not all viruses are sensitive to ZAP. For example, herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), vesicular stomatitis virus, and yellow fever virus (YFV) are resistant to ZAP. The protein in humans comes in two major isoforms, ZAP-L and ZAP-S, which differ in the C-terminal region through alternative splicing. The N-terminus of ZAP contains four CCCH-type zinc-finger motifs, which are required for RNA binding and antiviral activity. ZAP works by recruiting the RNA processing exosome complex and poly (A)-specific ribonuclease (PARN) to degrade target RNA from the 3′-end. It can also interrupt translation of incoming viral RNA of Sindbis virus by blocking the interaction between translational initiation factors eIF4A and eIF4G. Furthermore, ZAP-S can associate with RIG-I, a key sensor to recognize viral RNA, to promote the innate immune response and contribute to its antiviral potential. In this study, the authors found that JEV, DENV, and ZIKV were all sensitive to ZAP, and they demonstrated the antiviral mechanism of ZAP against JEV infection.
Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is a highly contagious virus that affects both humans and animals. It is a priority pathogen according to the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the United States Department of Agriculture. While there are currently no vaccines or therapeutics for RVFV, a live-attenuated vaccine called MP-12 is being tested in a clinical trial. MP-12 is a mutant version of the wild-type virus that is avirulent in pregnant ewes and apathogenic in adult mice. The virus is transmitted by mosquitoes, and has caused outbreaks on the Arabian Peninsula, and in South Africa in 2010-2011. The disease can be fatal in up to 20% of cases, and causes severe disease in ruminants, particularly in pregnant animals where nearly 100% of infected animals abort their fetuses. The host response to RVFV infection is not well understood, but a recent study found that adult C57BL/6 mice infected with wild-type RVFV had a more significant cytokine response than those infected with the attenuated MP-12 vaccine strain. This response was correlated with histological changes seen in organs of infected animals, and neurologic disease in some cases.
Breast cancer is a common cancer in women and can become resistant to chemotherapy, leading to death. There are different ways to regulate this resistance in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), which is initially susceptible to chemotherapy but can become resistant. This resistance is caused by changes in genes that affect apoptosis, and the activity of proteins like NF-κB and AKT. Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs), which can form new tumors, may also contribute to resistance. Cell-extrinsic factors like growth factors and cytokines in the tumor environment can affect resistance. We found a chemokine called CCL20 that could predict resistance to taxane, a type of chemotherapy. By studying cell lines and mouse models, we found that blocking CCL20 or CCL20-related proteins could reverse resistance and improve the effectiveness of taxane. CCL20 is involved in the positive feedback loop that causes resistance, and it activates p65 NF-κB, which is related to gene transcription. This activation of p65 NF-κB leads to increased efflux of taxane and more CCL20, contributing to resistance. Overall, understanding the mechanisms behind resistance can help doctors find new ways to treat breast cancer.
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects many different animals. It causes toxoplasmosis, an infection that can last for a lifetime and cause serious complications in people with weakened immune systems. When Toxoplasma infects a host, it creates a protective barrier within the host cell called the parasitophorous vacuole (PV). This is where the parasite reproduces and grows. However, the PV also creates a barrier that the parasite needs to overcome in order to fully take over the host and get the nutrients it needs to survive. To do this, Toxoplasma secretes effector proteins that modify the host cell's pathways and allow the parasite to survive within the host. These effector proteins are secreted from organelles in the parasite called rhoptries and dense granules. Recently, two new classes of dense granule effectors have been identified: those that localize to the nanotubular network and/or the PV membrane, and those that travel across the PV and localize to the host cell nucleus. GRA16 and GRA24 are examples of these two classes. Both proteins have been shown to affect important host pathways, but how they reach the host cell nucleus has not yet been understood. In this study, the authors found two new proteins, MYR2 and MYR3, that are involved in the transport of effectors across the PV. They also found that the fusion of an intrinsically disordered protein called GRA16 to a protein called DHFR is sufficient to block its translocation, and this block affects the translocation of other effectors as well. This suggests that effectors are transported across the PV through a translocon-like mechanism.
Papillomaviruses (PVs) are infectious viruses that can cause cancer in humans. They have limited coding ability, so they rely on host cells to help them replicate. The viral genome replicates in stages. It starts out at low copy number in the basal layer of the epithelium, then replicates more in the middle layers, and finally replicates most in the top layers. In this top layer, the viral genome replicates to hundreds of copies and forms particles that can infect new cells.  We have learned a lot about how PVs replicate by studying the E2 protein of bovine papillomavirus (BPV). The E2 protein has three parts: an N-terminal part that helps with replication, a middle part that is not related to other proteins, and a C-terminal part that helps with DNA binding. We also know that E2 binds to a specific part of the viral genome and recruits a protein called E1, which helps with replication. This happens at a specific part of the genome called the origin of replication.
Brucellosis is a common zoonotic infection that affects both humans and livestock. Central Asia is a hotspot for brucellosis, and small-scale urban and peri-urban (UPU) livestock farming is becoming more common in many low-income countries. The genetic characterization of Brucella DNA using qPCR assays can provide rapid and safe detection of the genus Brucella, and further classification of Brucella at the species level can be performed by qPCR targeting the rpoB gene. The current study aimed to investigate the presence of Brucella DNA in bovine milk with qPCR, perform sequence analysis of Brucella DNA extracted from bovine milk, and investigate how the qPCR result corresponds to previously obtained serology data in the UPU area of Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
The article explains how changes in the structure of the genome can affect how genes are expressed in plants and fungi. These changes are caused by the addition or removal of small molecules called "methyl groups" to the amino acids that make up the proteins that wrap DNA into a structure called chromatin. Methyl groups can be added to a variety of different amino acids, but in plants and fungi, most of them are added to a specific amino acid called lysine. When lysine is methylated, it causes the surrounding DNA to become tightly packed and less accessible to proteins that control gene expression. This process, called "epigenetic regulation," is thought to play a key role in controlling the expression of genes in response to changes in the environment.
Rabies is a fatal disease that can be prevented if treated promptly with post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). PEP consists of several steps, including washing the wound, vaccination, and in some cases, injections of purified rabies immunoglobulin. However, these treatments are not always available in low-income countries, leading to high death rates. The cost and availability of rabies vaccines can vary greatly, with prices ranging from a few dollars to hundreds of dollars per vial. Vaccine shortages are a major problem in many countries, and this can lead to delayed or incomplete treatment. Additionally, the cost of travel and accommodation for PEP can be significant, especially for patients who need to travel far for treatment. New ways of administering PEP, such as through intra-dermal injections, may be more cost-effective and have been approved by the World Health Organization. However, this method of administration is still not widely available. In this article, we provide a framework for comparing the cost-effectiveness of different PEP regimens, including existing approved regimens and new candidates subject to approval. We discuss the implications of these findings for policy and vaccine research.
Toxoplasma gondii, a parasite that causes toxoplasmosis, can infect a wide variety of mammalian cells, where it forms a vacuole called the parasitophorous vacuole. The parasite is auxotrophic for low-density lipoprotein-derived cholesterol and can scavenge it from host cells through endocytosis. Once inside the parasite, cholesterol can be esterified and stored in cytosolic lipid droplets (LD). Recent studies showed that host cells form more LD when infected by Toxoplasma, which may be beneficial for the parasite since it can salvage host LD lipids and use them for various purposes such as membrane synthesis or storage. In this study, the authors explore how Toxoplasma exploits host LD for nutritional purposes. They found that Toxoplasma infection has a profound impact on host cell neutral lipid homeostasis, including changes in LD abundance, distribution, and synthesis. They also provide morphological evidence that Toxoplasma internalizes host LD into the parasitophorous vacuole and salvages their lipid content for incorporation into membranes or storage in its own LD. Overall, the study provides insights into how Toxoplasma manipulates host cell lipid metabolism for its own benefit.
This paper discusses Fasciola hepatica, a type of parasitic flatworm that causes an infection called fasciolosis. This disease affects cattle and is now considered an emerging zoonotic disease by the World Health Organization. The paper highlights that resistance to the only current treatment, triclabendazole, is increasing, making it urgent to develop new ways to treat fasciolosis. One potential way to do this is by targeting a protein called cysteine protease, which is important in the life cycle of the parasite. The paper discusses how cysteine proteases are important at different stages of the parasite's life cycle and how drugs that target these proteins have been developed to treat other diseases. The paper then talks about how chalcones, a type of flavonoid, may be used as an inhibitor of cysteine proteases in Fasciola hepatica. Chalcones are natural compounds that have been found to have medicinal properties and have been approved for use in humans. The paper discusses how chalcones have been tested as inhibitors of cysteine proteases in other diseases and how they may be useful in treating fasciolosis. The paper then discusses how the authors performed a search for small molecules from their own library of synthetic flavonoids that could inhibit cysteine proteases in Fasciola hepatica, specifically FhCL3 and FhCL1. The authors identified several compounds that were effective at inhibiting these proteases and also had fasciolicide activity, meaning they killed the parasites. The paper concludes that the compounds identified by the authors could be used as the basis for developing new drugs to treat fasciolosis.
The retina analyzes images through a complex system of parallel representations that transmit information to the brain. The anatomical structure of these channels is established in the inner plexiform layer, which is made up of five to six distinct strata where dendrites from different types of retinal ganglion cells are found. Bipolar cells, which make connections with defined subsets of retinal ganglion cells, are located in these strata. Each bipolar cell has a unique filtering property that makes it easier to transmit information to different types of retinal ganglion cells. However, it is not clear how so many different filtering properties can be created using a limited number of bipolar cells. The answer may be found in the synaptic connections between the bipolar cells and the retinal ganglion cells, which may be different and have different kinetics due to local interactions with different types of inhibitory amacrine cells. The size of the bipolar cell's terminal may also play a role in how the visual signal is transmitted. By using zebrafish that express proteins that report the fusion of synaptic vesicles or the presynaptic calcium signal driving fusion, we can observe the activity of multiple bipolar cell synapses. We found that bipolar cell terminals of different sizes have different properties. On average, smaller terminals create calcium transients that are larger and faster, resulting in a higher initial gain of responses to an increase in temporal contrast followed by more profound adaptation. Small terminals also transmit high frequencies more effectively. Such differences in the output of small and large terminals are also observed in individual cells, which therefore have an intrinsic ability to filter visual information through channels with different gains, temporal filters, and adaptive properties.
The article introduces a new method for detecting and analyzing individual synapses at scale using fluorescence microscopy (FM) data. This method is designed to work with data acquired using conjugate array tomography (cAT), which combines FM with electron microscopic array tomography (EM-AT). The method produces probability maps that indicate the likelihood that a given voxel represents part of a synapse. The article demonstrates that the algorithm is effective in detecting synapses from FM data alone, and that it can reproduce known architectural features of cortical synapse distributions. The article also discusses the importance of a reliable, high-throughput method for synapse detection, and the limitations of current methods for detecting and analyzing individual synapses at scale.
The article describes the function of a protein called ZnT2 in humans. ZnT2 helps move zinc ions from one place in a cell to another, which is important for the body to work properly. The study looked at how ZnT2 does this and found that it uses a gradient of protons (a type of charged atom) to help move zinc ions across cell membranes. This information is important for understanding how ZnT2 works and how to treat conditions where it doesn't work properly.
This study is about a protein called Exo1, which is involved in DNA repair pathways in humans and yeast. Exo1 removes mononucleotides from the 5′ end of the DNA duplex, but its activity is tightly controlled by post-translational modifications. The study found that Exo1 interacts with 14-3-3 proteins, which are important for controlling the functions of proteins during DNA damage and replication stress. The study also showed that 14-3-3 proteins are required for cell cycle restart and for suppressing genomic instability during DNA damage and replication stress. The study found that 14-3-3 proteins regulate Exo1 phosphorylation and that Exo1-dependent ssDNA gaps accumulate at stalled forks in yeast 14-3-3 deficient cells. This study provides evidence that 14-3-3 proteins have a crucial role in regulating the function of proteins at stalled forks, with Exo1 being a key target.
HIV infection causes the immune system to become overactive, which leads to the depletion of CD4+ T cells and disease progression. This immune activation is caused by different factors, including gut tissue damage and the release of microbial products into the bloodstream. The production of IFN-I is one of these factors that is correlated with immune activation and disease progression. However, it is not clear if the pDCs are the primary source of IFN-I during acute or chronic HIV infection and the role of pDC in HIV replication or disease progression is not well understood. To better understand the role of pDC in HIV infection, a humanized mouse model has been developed that allows for the study of HIV infection in vivo. The pDCs in these models are rapidly activated by HIV infection and their activation level is inversely correlated with the number of CD4+ T cells. To determine the role of pDC in HIV infection, a specific monoclonal antibody has been developed to deplete pDCs in the lymphoid organs of these models. This allows for the study of HIV infection and immunopathogenesis during acute and chronic phases of the disease.
Highly active anti-retroviral treatment (HAART) has saved countless lives, but it comes with high costs, resistant viruses, and short-term and long-term side effects. Understanding how to activate cellular anti-viral defenses may lead to new therapeutic alternatives to overcome these limitations and support prevention and cure strategies. In this study, we show for the first time that sulforaphane (SFN), a natural product known for its health benefits, blocks HIV infection in macrophages. These cells play a critical role in HIV infection and pathogenesis, forming long-lived viral reservoirs and carrying virus into restricted compartments like the brain. Most monocytes, precursors of macrophages, are refractory to HIV infection until they differentiate to replenish the macrophage pool. A small but specific subset of these cells, however, may be readily infectable, even in HAART-treated patients. Infected macrophages have been observed in asymptomatic, untreated patients and in HAART-treated individuals. SFN is generated in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage and reaches various tissues after consumption where it maintains biological function. In humans, SFN is absorbed in the gut and peak plasma levels are achieved within 90 minutes. In mice, SFN can reach the prostate after ingestion where biological activity is maintained. SFN is a powerful mobilizer of the transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a master regulator of the antioxidant response. Nrf2 is held in check by its constitutive degradation through CUL3 ubiquitin ligase complexes using the protein KEAP1 as a substrate adaptor. SFN and other Nrf2-activators modify KEAP1 to prevent engagement of Nrf2. As Nrf2 accumulates, it translocates into the nucleus and initiates transcription from antioxidant response elements (ARE). The consensus Nrf2 binding motif, TGACTCAGCA, was derived from known anti-oxidant response genes and Nrf2 binding was reconfirmed in chromatin immunoprecipitation and transcription analyses. Nrf2 activates several types of genes predominantly encoding proteins that counter oxidizing conditions. Three viruses, Marburg virus, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, and Dengue virus, trigger Nrf2 activation. In contrast to Marburg, Dengue, and KSHV, HIV is blocked through Nrf2 and sets the stage for discovering the mechanism underlying this restriction.
Geohelminth infections, also known as parasitic worm infections, are a major health problem worldwide, affecting about 3.8 billion people. These infections can cause anemia, iron deficiency, and impaired nutritional status, as well as negative effects on a baby's growth in pregnant women. The severity of the effects of these infections on pregnant women may vary depending on the region and the level of infection. Hookworm infection causes intestinal bleeding and protein loss, which can worsen iron deficiency and anemia. Ascaris lumbricoides infections are usually asymptomatic, but can cause impaired fat digestion, reduced vitamin absorption, and temporary lactose intolerance. Blood loss can also be a feature of Trichuris trichiura infection, but it is less prominent than in hookworm infection. Malaria is common in areas where these parasitic worms are found, and the interaction between the two diseases is not clear. Pregnancy can increase the prevalence of Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichiura infections, but it is unclear if there is an interaction between these parasites and malaria during pregnancy. In our study, we looked at the prevalence of geohelminth infections and their effects on pregnant women in rural western Kenya. We found that geohelminth infections were common among pregnant women, and that they were associated with anemia, iron deficiency, and impaired nutritional status. We also looked at how these infections affected pregnancy symptoms and found that pregnant women with hookworm infections were more likely to have anemia, but there was no significant difference in other symptoms between pregnant women with and without geohelminth infections.
Mycolactone is a substance produced by a skin pathogen called Mycobacterium ulcerans, which causes Buruli ulcer disease. The skin ulcers associated with this disease are not painful and do not cause inflammation. Scientists are trying to understand why this is the case, in order to better treat the disease and find new ways to control inflammation. Early research thought that the lack of pain and inflammation was due to nerve damage. However, later research showed that mycolactone can cause local hypoesthesia (a loss of feeling in a specific area) without nerve damage. Mycolactone has been found to activate a type of receptor on nerve cells called type 2 angiotensin II receptors, which can cause the cells to become less sensitive and not send pain signals properly. This mechanism is controversial, as blocking type 2 angiotensin II receptors has been shown to promote analgesia (a reduction in pain) in the past. Recently, scientists have discovered that mycolactone can also cause problems with the proteins that are made by immune cells, which can lead to migration problems, decreased production of cytokines, and decreased responsiveness to cytokines. This can cause inflammation and pain, so blocking mycolactone's effects on immune cells could potentially help with analgesia. In support of this hypothesis, mice were given mycolactone and were found to be protected from skin inflammation and acute inflammatory pain. Mycolactone could potentially be used to treat chronic pain, which is a growing health problem. Nerve damage can cause an inflammatory reaction at the site of the injury, leading to disruption of the blood nerve barrier and infiltration of immune cells into the nerve. Peripheral nerve damage can also cause central sensitization, which is an increase in pain sensitivity in the brain. Mycolactone can cause problems with proteins made by nerve cells and immune cells, which can lead to decreased sensitivity and responsiveness. This could potentially stop the inflammatory reaction and reduce central sensitization, leading to reduced pain.
Human African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness, is a disease caused by a parasite and mainly found in sub-Saharan Africa. The parasite has two sub-species: Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense. Trypanosoma brucei gambiense causes over 95% of all cases of HAT and is prevalent on the coast of West Africa, where the vector, a type of fly called Glossina palpalis gambiensis, is abundant. Symptoms can include intermittent fevers and headaches, and if not treated, the disease can lead to neurological disorders and is widely assumed to be fatal. However, there are cases of asymptomatic carriers who have been described in both old and recent reports, suggesting that humans may be able to develop resistance to the disease. A study was conducted in Guinea to explore the possible role of genetic polymorphisms in IL4, IL6, IL8, IL10, IFNG, APOL1, TNFA, HPR, HLA-G, HLA-A, HP, and MIF genes on susceptibility/resistance to HAT.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology allows us to sequence an entire genome in a cost-effective way. This technology allows us to survey multiple individuals from a population to catalogue genetic variations in the population. By using an unbiased approach, NGS allows us to survey different classes of genetic variants with a single assay. These variants include single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertion-deletions (indels), and structural variants (SVs). The 1000 Genomes Project (1 KGP) is a project that surveys more than 2,500 individuals from 20 populations around the world. Recently, a project called the Singapore Sequencing Malay Project (SSMP) sequenced 100 Austronesian Malays at a coverage of at least 30X. This project has shown that deep sequencing can provide a more complete characterization of variants carried by the individuals. South Asia is a diverse continent that comprises more than 20% of the world population. Singapore is home to over 350,000 Indians, who have been designated as Indian, but in reality, they are from different parts of the Indian subcontinent. The Singapore Sequencing Indian Project (SSIP) is a project that aims to perform whole-genome sequencing of 38 healthy Singapore Indians. The project will provide insights into the genetic structure and diversity of Asian Indians in Singapore. The project is now publicly available at http://www.statgen.nus.edu.sg/~SSIP .
Melioidosis is a disease that is caused by a type of bacteria called Burkholderia pseudomallei. This disease is found in tropical and subtropical regions of the world and is considered an emerging disease. Treatment for melioidosis can be complicated because the bacteria that cause this disease are resistant to many antibiotics. This resistance is due to several factors, including the ability of the bacteria to form biofilms and to go into a prolonged latency period in a human host. Genome sequence analysis has shown that the bacteria that cause melioidosis have several genes that can help them resist antibiotics. However, only a few of these genes have been experimentally confirmed. One of these genes, called AmrAB-OprA, can help the bacteria resist aminoglycosides and macrolides. However, our results suggest that this gene does not play a major role in resistance to these antibiotics in some strains of bacteria. Instead, these strains may lack the ability to express this gene, either due to a deletion or because of some other unknown mechanism. Additionally, we found that some strains of bacteria that cause melioidosis have a deletion in their genomes that removes several genes encoding putative virulence factors and other functions implicated in bacterial pathogenesis and physiology.
This study investigates the early stage of differentiation in CD4 T helper cells, using a model system to understand the interplay between intracellular transcription factors and extracellular cytokines. The goal is to avoid biasing cellular fate by studying spontaneous differentiation of naive CD4 T cells in the absence of exogenously added cytokines. The regulatory network governing cell differentiation consists of positive feedback loops and cross-inhibitory interactions between Tbx21 and Gata3. These transcription factors are the master regulators of Th1 and Th2 differentiation, respectively. Tbet and Gata3 activate their own expression and that of their respective target genes, while also silencing the expression of the other transcription factor. To quantify the number of Tbx21 and Gata3 transcripts in activated CD4 T cells, single-molecule fluorescent in situ hybridization ( smFISH ) combined with immunofluorescence is performed on CD4 cells isolated from C57BL/6 mice that were activated by culturing them in wells coated with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. This study provides insights into the complex regulatory network governing cell differentiation and the interplay between extracellular cytokines and intracellular transcription factors during the early stage of differentiation in naive CD4 T cells.
This article is about a protein called paqr-2 in C. elegans worms. Paqr-2 is important for metabolic regulation and helps the worms adapt to cold temperatures. To find out how paqr-2 works, the researchers used an unbiased forward genetic approach to screen randomly mutagenized worm populations. They found nine suppressors of the cold adaptation defect in the paqr-2 mutant and established a new regulatory pathway connecting paqr-2, phosphatidylcholine (PC) synthesis, and the regulation of FA desaturation to increase membrane fluidity during cold adaptation.
Herpes viruses cause a variety of diseases, from cold sores and chicken pox to birth defects and cancer. The smallest unit of a herpes virus is called a virion, which is composed of a capsid that contains the viral DNA, a protein layer (the tegument), and an outer lipid envelope. The tegument is a sticky layer that surrounds the virion. It is not a part of the viral DNA or the capsid. The tegument is responsible for releasing the virus from the cell, and it can also interact with the cell to help the virus enter the nucleus of the cell. A new discovery was made recently using cryo-EM and cryo-ET techniques to visualize the structure of the tegument. This study revealed a previously unknown feature in the tegument of HSV-1 virions that is similar to the delivery system of tailed bacteriophages. This feature may help the virus interact with the cell at key points during the viral life cycle, such as when it enters the nucleus or releases its DNA. This discovery provides new information about how viruses interact with cells and may lead to new ways to treat viral infections.
Humans are frequently exposed to a variety of pathogens in their lifetime. Some of these pathogens can even infect us at the same time. When the immune system responds to these co-infections, it may affect the progression of HIV-1 disease and transmission. This is particularly true in people who have already been infected with HIV-1. S. mansoni is an important type of pathogen that is often found in areas with high HIV-1 prevalence. A protein called DC-SIGN, which is expressed by dendritic cells, plays a role in both HIV-1 transmission and S. mansoni transmission. The protein can capture and transfer S. mansoni eggs to immune cells, and it can also bind to HIV-1 particles and assist with their entry into immune cells. CD4+ T cells are infected by HIV-1 when they come into contact with the virus. There are different types of CD4+ T cells, and the virus can infect them in different ways. One way is through a direct infection of the CD4+ T cell itself, called cis-infection. Another way is through the CD4+ T cell coming into contact with a virus-infected dendritic cell, called trans-infection. When CD4+ T cells are infected with HIV-1, they can be lost from the immune system, which can have a negative impact on disease progression. HIV-1 infection can also affect the way CD4+ T cells respond to other pathogens, such as S. mansoni. Studies have shown that S. mansoni can increase the risk of HIV-1 infection in women. Some treatments for S. mansoni have been shown to decrease viral loads in people who are co-infected with S. mansoni and HIV-1. However, other studies have found conflicting results. Therefore, it is important to continue studying the relationship between S. mansoni and HIV-1 to understand how they interact in the body and how these interactions affect disease progression and treatment.
The term "astrocyte" was first used in the 1890s to describe a type of brain cells that were found by a scientist named Lenhossék. These cells are called "macroglia" because they are larger than other types of brain cells. For most of the 20th century, scientists thought that astrocytes were passive and just watched what was happening in the brain. However, more recent research has shown that astrocytes are actually very important and involved in many processes, such as modulating the levels of excitatory and inhibitory chemicals in the brain. They also help with homeostasis, which is the body's ability to keep itself in balance. This is especially true for astrocytes in the brain. Astrocytes are also important for blood flow in the brain. In addition, astrocytes are important in many different brain diseases and injuries. By studying astrocytes, scientists can learn more about how to treat these conditions.
The paper is about how certain parts of DNA, called transposons, are silenced to prevent their movement and to keep our genomes stable. Scientists have found that small RNA molecules called siRNAs are involved in this silencing process. These siRNAs are made from double-stranded RNA by the Dicer enzyme, then incorporated into AGO4 proteins, which help to silence transcription. It is not clear if siRNAs base-pair interact with DNA or nascent RNA transcripts, but it is known that this process is important for transcriptional silencing. There are several other proteins that are also important for this process, including Pol II, Pol IV, RNA Polymerase V (Pol V), RDR2, and DCL3. These proteins are all needed for efficient establishment and maintenance of transcriptional silencing. The paper suggests that the SPT5L protein may work downstream of Pol V and recruit AGO4 to Pol V-transcribed loci. The paper also shows that SPT5L physically interacts with chromatin and is needed for DNA methylation and repressive histone modifications at several loci. The paper proposes that the coordinate binding of SPT5L and AGO4 creates a platform for direct or indirect recruitment of chromatin modifying enzymes.
The bacterial genome encodes alternative sigma factors that control the transcription of specific genes in response to changing environmental conditions. One of these alternative sigma factors is RpoS, which is the master regulator of the general stress response in E. coli. Induction of the RpoS regulon occurs in response to a variety of stressors such as low nutrient availability, high osmolarity, reactive oxygen intermediates, and low pH. Up to 10% of the genome is regulated either directly or indirectly by RpoS with the composition of the regulon determined by the specific stressor. RpoS is essential for biofilm formation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, growth and survival of Legionella pneumophila within phagolysosomes, and infectivity of mice by Salmonella enterica. B. burgdorferi uses just three sigma factors to modulate its transcriptome during its enzootic cycle. Transcription of rpoSBb is directly activated by the alternative sigma factor RpoN with the aid of two enhancer proteins: the response regulator Rrp2 and the DNA-binding protein and Fur orthologue, BosR. RpoS is induced during the nymphal blood meal but is not expressed by spirochetes within replete larvae or unfed nymphs. The expression patterns of RpoS-dependent genes in the tick reflect more than a simple ON/OFF bipartite regulation. Within the mammal, RpoS-dependent genes are required to establish infection. We defined the contours of RpoS-dependent gene expression within larval and nymphal life stages and demonstrate that RpoS is required for the transmission of Lyme disease spirochetes by feeding nymphs. We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible and in vitro appears to be attributable in part to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which among other functions, provides NAD+ for glycolysis. Our findings reveal a previously unsuspected role for RpoSBb in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode (round body formation) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph.
A recent study examined how the hormones gibberellin (GA) and jasmonate (JA) work together to promote the development of stamen filaments. Both GA and JA are important hormones for the normal growth and development of flowering plants. A lack of GA or JA can lead to problems in the development of stamen filaments, which results in male sterility. The study found that the hormones work together through a group of proteins called DELLAs. These proteins are involved in controlling the response to GA. If the DELLAs are missing, then the response to GA is not as effective. The study also found that JA is produced in response to GA. This helps to regulate the development of stamen filaments. Overall, the study found that GA and JA work together to promote the development of stamen filaments.
In this paper, the authors investigated how the TOR pathway affects lifespan extension in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans when it is put on a restricted diet. They used a genetic model of caloric restriction called eat-2 and looked at whether inhibiting the TOR pathway in these worms would further extend their lifespan. They found that inhibiting the TOR pathway did indeed extend the lifespan of eat-2 worms. They also found that the transcription factor HIF-1 is involved in this process and that it works downstream of S6K, a protein that helps control cell growth and metabolism. The authors believe that this study provides new insights into how the TOR pathway can be used to extend healthy lifespan in animals and humans.
Skin cells called keratinocytes have different functions depending on where they are located in the skin. As they move from the bottom of the skin to the surface, they start to make the tough outer layer of the skin. However, when skin gets hurt, keratinocytes move from the surface to the injury to help repair the skin. Scientists are trying to understand how the same type of skin cells can have different functions in these two situations. They are looking at the different "rules" that help these cells decide what to do. They found that a protein called GRHL3 is important for both the normal function of the skin and the repair of the skin. They found that GRHL3 helps to activate the genes that are needed for the skin to make the tough outer layer. They also found that GRHL3 helps to activate the genes that are needed for the skin to move and repair the skin. They found that GRHL3 does this by changing where it binds in the "rules" that the cells are following. This is important because it shows us how one protein can help the skin do two different things by changing where it binds in the "rules" that the cells are following.
Researchers have found that retroviruses, which can cause cancer, have infected the germ cells of their hosts and have become part of the host's DNA. These viruses, called endogenous retroviruses (ERVs), are passed down through generations like any other gene. ERVs can be harmful or helpful to their hosts. Some ERVs are active and can protect their hosts from related pathogenic retroviruses by blocking the pathogenic virus from entering cells and/or by limiting the replication of the pathogenic virus. Sheep are a unique model for studying the relationship between retroviruses and hosts because researchers know a lot about how they were domesticated and bred. The sheep genome contains many copies of ERVs that are related to viruses that cause cancer in sheep. These ERVs are expressed in the genital tract of the ewe and the placenta. Researchers have found that ERVs are critical for the development of the placenta in sheep. They also found that some ERVs can block the replication of the pathogenic virus both by competing for the same receptor on the cell surface and by blocking the virus from replicating in the cells. The researchers also found that ERVs have been continuously adapting to the sheep genome and that some ERVs have evolved to escape the blocking activity of other ERVs. This study provides evidence for the co-evolution of ERVs, exogenous retroviruses, and their hosts.
Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease that occurs in many parts of Africa, Asia, South America, and the Middle East. It can also be found in non-endemic areas because of the increasing number of immigrants, foreign workers, and travelers. A recent study found urogenital schistosomiasis in Corsica, France. This form of the disease is caused by S. haematobium and S. bovis hybrids. The current diagnosis of schistosomiasis relies on microscopy techniques, but they are time-consuming, require trained operators, and offer poor sensitivity when the parasite burden is low. Additionally, egg release and migration from tissues to the lumen (gut or bladder) is a long process (over six weeks), leading to diagnosis delay. The detection of specific antibodies is another option for diagnosing schistosomiasis in non-endemic areas, but it has limited usefulness for diagnosing patients living in endemic regions. The current panel of serological techniques is highly sensitive, but it cannot differentiate between ongoing and previous infections. In contrast, circulating adult worm-derived antigens are good indicators of active infection, but they still lack sensitivity, especially in cases of low parasite burden. An immunoblotting assay using S. mansoni and S. haematobium adult worm extracts improves the performance of serological screening and is relevant in both urogenital and intestinal schistosomiasis. However, the usefulness of serological tools is limited due to their inability to differentiate between ongoing and previous infections.
Archazolid A is a low-nanomolar inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase with anti-proliferative activity in vitro and in vivo. Its structure has been elucidated by NMR spectroscopy, and it contains 7 alkenes, 8 stereocenters, and 24-membered macrolactone ring. It has three in-solution model conformations. ML models for QM can replace some computationally expensive, related QM calculations to speed up the process. These models use chemical similarity principle and interpolate between a set of reference calculations with underlying assumption that similar chemical systems have similar properties. ML has been used in diverse QM contexts such as density functional theory, prediction of atomization energies across chemical compound space, and transition state theory. Non-parametric methods such as Gaussian process regression have been used to model potential energy surfaces. A critical component of QM/ML models is the representation of the simulated system, which can include symmetry functions, internal coordinates, system-specific variables, or more complex procedures. We use a simple matrix representation based on nuclear charges and intra-molecular distances only.
In recent years, outbreaks of new viruses have been spreading rapidly across the world, even when measures are in place to detect them early and at their source. These new viruses are often spread from animals to humans. Scientists are trying to stop human diseases that are spread from animals by finding them before they reach the pandemic level. To do this, they are monitoring both humans and animals at hotspots where the diseases could occur. By finding animal diseases before they become human diseases, scientists hope to prevent them from spreading worldwide. Ebola virus disease, which is deadly for humans and animals, is one of the diseases that scientists are monitoring. It is thought to be a major threat to the survival of gorillas and chimpanzees in Central Africa. However, there is little evidence that great apes are actually exposed to this virus or other dangerous pathogens, which makes it difficult to monitor their health. To help fill this gap, scientists have developed a new non-invasive immunological assay to detect ebolavirus antibodies in great ape feces. This new assay will allow them to better understand how great apes are exposed to ebolavirus and develop new ways to protect them. It will also be valuable in future studies of ebolavirus in wild great ape populations.
The type III secretion system (T3SS) is a protein-injecting system that enables certain Gram-negative bacteria to directly inject a set of proteins called effectors into the host cells. These effectors subvert the host immune system and promote bacterial colonization. In plants, the defense barrier against pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) such as flagellin or bacterial elongation factor Tu is known as PAMP-triggered immunity (PTI). When bacteria are recognized by specific receptors at the cell surface, a network of cellular signaling events are triggered, leading to changes in gene expression. However, T3Es can interfere with key eukaryotic cell functions, such as cytoskeleton rearrangement, transcriptional regulation or ubiquitination, which can subvert the plant immune responses. Ubiquitination is a highly conserved eukaryotic post-translational protein modification that involves attaching ubiquitin to the epsilon amine of a lysine residue in the target protein. This modification alters the activity, localization or targets the protein for degradation. Bacterial T3Es have evolved diverse mechanisms to mimic ubiquitination-related functions. In this study, the authors investigated a newly identified T3E called XopL from the plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria. They discovered that XopL has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and contains a novel fold, representing a new class of E3 ubiquitin ligases.
In people who are infected with HIV, their immune system can become weakened over time, and this can make it harder to fight off infections. Early treatment with medicine can be important in reducing this immune weakness and preserving the ability to fight off infections. Memory CD4+ T cells, also known as T follicular helper (Tfh) cells, are a type of immune cell that is important for fighting off infections. In this study, the authors looked at the function and phenotype of these Tfh cells in people who were infected with HIV and either did not receive treatment or received treatment very early on. They found that the immune function of these cells was better preserved in people who received treatment very early on compared to those who did not receive treatment or received treatment later. This suggests that early treatment can be important in preserving the immune system and protecting against infections in people who are infected with HIV.
The study is about the development of a new way to test drugs that target parasites. Currently, a drug called Praziquantel is used to treat a parasite infection called Schistosomiasis, but it has some limitations. The study proposes using a new technique called the GloSensor assay to test the activity of a protein called Sm5HTR from the parasite that causes Schistosomiasis. The GloSensor assay uses a protein that produces light when it binds to a certain molecule. The study shows that when the protein from the parasite binds to a certain molecule, it produces a different light signal than the protein from humans. This shows that the two proteins are different and may be useful drug targets. The study also shows that some molecules that bind to the human protein do not bind to the parasite protein, but some molecules that bind to the parasite protein do not bind to the human protein. This shows that the two proteins have different binding properties and may be useful drug targets. Finally, the study shows that some molecules that bind to the parasite protein cause the protein to produce a different light signal than when it binds to a molecule that does not work as a drug. This shows that the protein from the parasite may have a unique property that could be exploited for drug development.
In 1973, Townes and Holtfreter observed that cells from different germ layers separated from each other, and self-assembled into the basic structure of the body. This was explained by Steinberg's hypothesis that cells attract each other due to differences in their adhesion. However, if the boundary between two germ layers allows tissue translocation, more specialized mechanisms may be required. In Xenopus gastrula, mesoderm cells move across the ectodermal roof of the blastocoel cavity (BCR), and the boundary between these two germ layers, Brachet's cleft, must allow this movement but prevent invasion of the BCR by mesoderm. It was found that BCR and mesoderm cells are in direct contact, and express the same adhesion molecules. However, the molecular mechanisms that control the separation of these cells are only partly known. Non-canonical Wnt signaling, interaction with a sparse network of fibronectin fibrils, and activation of RhoA and Rho kinase are involved in the implementation of a proximal mechanism that generates the boundary. A candidate for this proximal mechanism is ephrin/Eph signaling. Eph receptor tyrosine kinases and their membrane-linked ephrin ligands are involved in boundary formation. However, direct observation of repulsive behavior at the boundary has not been attempted. In Xenopus embryos, several Eph receptors and ephrins have been reported. Their in vivo functions during gastrulation have not yet been established, but gain-of-function experiments indicate that they can regulate cell adhesion, migration, and sorting.
This article presents a study that used a statistical technique called Fisher Discriminant Analysis (FDA) to examine the association between the folate-dependent one-carbon metabolism (FOCM) and transsulfuration (TS) pathways and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The study analyzed data from 109 children with ASD, 89 siblings of children with ASD, and 101 neurotypical children. The results showed that it was possible to distinguish children with ASD from neurotypical children using metabolites from the FOCM and TS pathways. Additionally, a statistical technique called kernel partial least squares (KPLS) revealed a strong correlation between metabolite concentrations from the FOCM and TS pathways and adaptive behavior in children with ASD. The study provides strong evidence for the association between FOCM and TS dysfunction and ASD.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that is spread by sandfly bites and causes skin or mucosal lesions in humans. The disease is classified as either cutaneous (CL) or visceral (VL), with VL being potentially fatal if not diagnosed and treated early. The WHO estimates that 2 million people are affected by CL and 0.5 million by VL globally. In Brazil, the number of CL cases has increased significantly since the 1990s, while the number of VL cases has remained stable. Strategies for controlling leishmaniasis have not changed for over 60 years. Bayesian geostatistical models have been used to map infectious diseases, including leishmaniasis. In this study, we used Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models to predict the incidence of CL and VL in Brazil using climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic covariates. We produced maps of the predicted incidence and estimated the number of infected people in each state. These maps and estimates may be useful for decision-makers to prioritize intervention areas and allocate resources for the control and elimination of leishmaniasis.
Dengue fever is a rapidly spreading mosquito-borne disease that can cause a wide range of symptoms, including mild flu-like symptoms, severe bleeding, liver damage, and shock. While it is most common in children, a growing number of adults are being hospitalized due to dengue fever. Recent studies have shown that adults may be at higher risk for certain complications, such as acute liver failure and encephalopathy. These studies have also highlighted the need for more research to understand the differences in dengue fever presentation and outcomes between children and adults. To address this need, we conducted a large study of dengue fever cases in Vietnam, which included both adult and pediatric patients. We aimed to describe the patterns of disease, management strategies, and outcomes in these patients. We found that children were more likely to present with symptoms such as abdominal pain and bleeding, while adults were more likely to present with fever and headache. We also found that children were more likely to require hospitalization and have more severe cases of dengue fever. However, the overall mortality rate was low in both groups. These findings highlight the need for continued research into dengue fever, particularly in adult patients.
HIV-1 originated from a cross-species transmission of SIVcpz from chimpanzees to humans. In contrast to pathogenic infections leading to AIDS in non-natural hosts, infection in natural host species, including sooty mangabeys, is typically non-progressive. Sooty mangabeys express very low levels of CCR5 on their CD4+ T cells, which raises the possibility that other pathways might be utilized in addition to CCR5 for infection and cell targeting in vivo. It has been recently found that cell-associated viral loads in CD4+ Tcm are considerably lower in SM than RM, despite equivalent or higher Tem infection levels, which might enable better immune cell homeostasis in infected SM. Another difference is the presence of chronic generalized immune activation in infected humans and RM, whereas natural hosts display generalized immune activation during acute infection that then rapidly resolves. Evolution appears to have favored mutations in the CCR5 gene that abrogate surface expression of this molecule. As a result, CD4+ cells from individuals homozygous for CCR5Δ32 are resistant to infection by CCR5-using HIV-1 isolates in vitro but permissive for strains that can use CXCR4. However, sooty mangabeys are the natural host of SIVrcm, which uses CCR2b for entry and cannot use CCR5. A novel 2 base pair deletion and frameshift mutation in SM CCR5 (CCR5Δ2) results in a lack of surface expression and coreceptor function. The mutation is present at a 26% allele frequency in the large Yerkes National Primate Research Center SM colony, and together with the previously-described Δ24 allele results in 8% of animals lacking functional CCR5. However, CCR5-null SM are susceptible to natural and experimental SIVsmm infection and exhibit robust viral replication, providing an explanation for the efficient use of alternative coreceptors by the SIVsmm/mac family of viruses.
MEF2 is a family of transcriptional regulators involved in various biological functions during development and adult life. There are four members of the MEF2 family, MEF2A/B/C/D, that perform similar functions and have a highly conserved domain involved in dimerization and DNA-binding, followed by a less conserved region responsible for transcriptional activation. These transcriptional programs are regulated differently in different cell types. Some of these targets are turned off even though a transcriptionally active MEF2 is present. Class IIa HDACs, which can act as transcriptional co-repressors of MEF2, are important in these processes. Dysfunctions in MEF2 have been linked to various diseases, including cognitive disorders, cardiac hypertrophy, and cancer. In this study, the authors explored the transcriptional landscape and epigenetic modifications controlled by MEF2 in relation to the tumorigenic process using leiomyosarcoma (LMS) as a model.
Hydrophobins are proteins produced by fungi to modify the properties of interfaces in their environment. They can form assemblies with long range order on various surfaces, including air-water interfaces, and these assemblies display unique characteristics that are important for the fungi's invasive and adaptive behavior. Hydrophobins can form 2D crystalline structures at the air-water interface, which have led to many industrial applications, such as emulsification, dispersion of insoluble compounds, and protein immobilization. Two important hydrophobins, HFBI and HFBII, have been studied and shown to form amphiphilic 2D crystalline structures at the air-water interface. Through cryo-EM, protein-protein docking, and molecular dynamics simulation, the detailed atomic resolution picture of HFBI and HFBII films at the air-water interface has been obtained. The results suggest a unit cell composed of six proteins and a structure very close to P6 2D point group symmetry class. However, electron cryomicroscopy results indicate a structure with only P3 symmetry. In addition, a possible metastable structure with a smaller lattice size was found, and a Monte Carlo simulation was used to demonstrate its importance in the formation of the surface structure.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala-azar, is a dangerous disease caused by a parasite that is spread by sand flies. It is endemic in many countries and affects millions of people. The parasite that causes VL is called Leishmania donovani, and it is a type of protozoan. VL is the most serious form of leishmaniasis and is fatal if not treated. Since there is no effective vaccine against VL, chemotherapy is currently the main approach to treating the disease. However, this is problematic because the existing drugs are toxic and there is a risk of resistance developing. This highlights the need to identify new drugs and drug targets. Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases (aaRSs) are a type of enzyme that is essential for protein translation and can be targeted by drugs. Recently, a drug called cladosporin has been found to inhibit aaRSs in several parasites, including Leishmania donovani and Plasmodium falciparum. The drug borrelidin has also been found to bind to Leishmania donovani ThrRS and has an inhibitory effect on its aminoacylation activity. This inhibition was found to have antileishmanial activity in vitro. Borrelidin has also been found to be effective in genetically modified parasites that were created by knocking out the gene for Leishmania donovani ThrRS. This suggests that Leishmania donovani ThrRS is an essential enzyme for the parasite and a potential target for antileishmanial drug development.
The study explored how the immune system recognizes viruses and how this recognition is initiated in the body. The immune system has special sensors called pattern recognition receptors that recognize specific patterns of molecules called pathogen-associated molecular patterns. These receptors are particularly important for recognizing viruses, which have a special molecule called a 5′-triphosphate (5′-ppp) at the start of their RNA. The study showed that a protein called retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) is a pattern recognition receptor that recognizes viruses. RIG-I recognizes and binds to the 5′-ppp at the start of viral RNA, which is essential for the immune system to recognize the virus. The study found that long poly-uridine regions, with interspersed ribocytosines, are key parts of RIG-I recognition of viral RNA. This could have important implications for developing vaccine vectors and antiviral therapeutic strategies for controlling viral infections.
Scientists have studied the relationship between parasitic worms and their host. They found that parasitism developed in free-living worms through multiple independent evolutionary events. The worms use various ways to co-opt or evade the host immune response, which is a central influence on successful parasitism. Some worms manipulate innate immune signals and the Th2 immune response to facilitate their development. Scientists found that eosinophils, a type of white blood cell, can positively regulate the growth and survival of Trichinella spiralis larvae, a type of parasitic worm that infects skeletal muscle. The eosinophil-derived interleukin (IL)-10 promotes growth of the larvae and inhibits the local production of nitric oxide, which is toxic for the larvae. In addition, the IL-4/signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 (STAT6) signaling in eosinophils are required for normal larval growth. In the absence of eosinophils, there is a sustained, local, interferon-driven inflammation that promotes a shift in metabolism in infected muscle. These findings suggest that the recruitment of eosinophils promotes a nutrient-rich environment that facilitates larval growth.
Scientists have studied how chromosomes replicate in cells by looking at replication origins that fire at different times in the cell cycle. They found that there is a reproducible replication time for each region of the genome, but this does not mean that all cells use the same pattern of origin firing. Single-molecule analyses have shown that there is a lot of variation in how origins fire between cells, making it difficult to predict when a particular region of the genome will replicate. Some scientists have proposed that origins fire independently of each other and that replication times are an average of the variable firing efficiencies of the surrounding origins. Others have proposed that replicons are arranged in functional groups and that adjacent origins are organized as clusters that often fire at similar times. In general, it seems that there is no simple model that can explain how chromosomal replication works.
In this study, the authors present a new approach to understanding how our brains are able to recognize objects even when they are in different positions, lighting conditions or perspectives. They propose that the brain learns to recognize these objects by focusing on the "slowest" aspects of the sensory input, which are the most relevant for recognizing the same object. They use the mathematical concept of "slowness" to develop an algorithm that can extract these features from sensory input. This algorithm, called "Slow Feature Analysis", has been used to model the way neurons in the primary visual cortex learn to recognize objects. However, this algorithm assumes that neurons are able to perform complex mathematical calculations, which is biologically unlikely. Therefore, the authors used a modified version of the algorithm to analyze a simple model neuron. They found that the neuron was able to learn to recognize the slowest features of its input using a type of learning called "spike-timing–dependent plasticity". This result provides a new understanding of how the brain is able to recognize objects and suggests that spiking neurons may be able to use a similar approach to learn other types of information.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the US, and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type. Scientists have discovered new targeted therapies that are safer and more effective than traditional chemotherapy for patients with an oncogenic driver mutation. However, these treatments can become ineffective due to drug resistance. There are two main forms of resistance: intrinsic and acquired. Intrinsic resistance is due to abnormalities in the DNA that prevent the treatment from working. Acquired resistance can develop under the pressure of treatment. A new paradigm in acquired drug resistance has been introduced, which suggests that resistance is due to the genetic and phenotypic diversity that occurs during tumor evolution. In NSCLC, intrinsically-resistant tumor subpopulations can expand, or drug-tolerant cells can acquire alterations that confer more robust resistance to therapy. Scientists used CRISPR/Cas9 to create phenotypically-unique subclones of NSCLC by stochastically mutating Dicer1, a cytoplasmic riboendonuclease that regulates microRNA. They grew these subclones in a three-dimensional culture to closely mimic in vivo growth. The scientists found that intrinsically-sensitive, phenotypically-distinct subclones support each other to rapidly evolve a therapy-resistant phenotype via drug-induced cell state transitions. They also developed a mathematical model to simulate the impact of this phenomenon on population growth over time. These findings suggest that drug-induced cell state transitions can play a significant role in acquired resistance, and this can have a population-wide impact.
Researchers analyzed blood samples from 1228 people in Tanzania to identify potential risk factors for infection with a group of bacteria called Spotted Fever Group (SFG) rickettsiae. The study was designed to focus on people who may be at a higher risk of infection than the general population. To do this, the researchers stratified the participants by age, altitude, and ownership of domestic mammals, and then selected participants from each stratum using random sampling. The researchers used an SES (Socioeconomic Status) score to identify households with lower socioeconomic status, which may be at a higher risk of infection. They also collected data on environmental factors such as population density, livestock density, temperature, vegetation cover, and elevation. They then used this data to create a map of the study area. The researchers used an antibody test to determine which participants had been infected with SFG rickettsiae. They then analyzed the data to identify risk factors for infection. The main risk factors they identified were age, gender, and the ownership of domestic mammals such as goats or sheep. They also identified some environmental factors such as temperature and vegetation cover, but the relationship between these factors and infection was not always clear. The researchers concluded that more research is needed to understand the relationship between environmental factors and infection with SFG rickettsiae.
In this study, researchers found that a particular fatty acid called oleate is important for the immune response and protection against bacterial infections in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Oleate is produced by progressively desaturating and elongating a saturated fatty acid called stearic acid. The researchers found that oleate is important for innate immune activation and resistance to bacterial infection, but its role is distinct from the effects of two other polyunsaturated fatty acids. This suggests that oleate is linked to both cellular energy stores and the immune response.
This paper is about antibiotic resistance in bacteria. It explains that excessive use of antibiotics in medicine and animal production has led to bacteria becoming resistant to antibiotics. The authors suggest that bacteria can also become resistant to antibiotics if they have too many of a certain kind of chemical in them, such as vancomycin in C. difficile. The authors suggest that a new type of antibiotic could be made that targets a specific kind of chemical in bacteria. They say that this type of antibiotic would be good because it would not be affected by the bacteria's ability to get rid of chemicals that it doesn't like. The authors say that the chemical they are thinking of targeting is guanine, which is a kind of chemical that bacteria need to make other chemicals that are important for their growth. They say that if they block the bacteria from making this chemical, it will make them unable to grow and possibly make them die. The authors say that they tested this idea by blocking the bacteria from making guanine and found that it made them unable to grow. They also say that they think that this new type of antibiotic would be good because it would be important for the bacteria to make this chemical to be able to make other chemicals that are important for their growth.
In the hippocampus of rodents, specific cells are activated when the animal is in a certain location in its environment. These cells are known as "place cells" and they help the animal navigate. Recent studies have shown that place cells can also be found in humans, monkeys, and other primates, but it is not clear how well these place cells work in the real or virtual world. The purpose of this study was to compare how well place cells work in primates in real and virtual environments, and to understand how these cells are affected by the way the animal is looking. The study used a virtual reality maze to observe how well the place cells worked. The researchers separated the virtual environment into different locations and looked at how well the place cells were activated at each location. They also looked at how the place cells were activated when the animal was looking at different things in the environment. The researchers found that the place cells in the hippocampus of primates were activated when the animal looked at different things in the environment, and that this information was very useful for the animal to navigate the maze. The study provides important information about how the hippocampus helps animals navigate.
This article is about the development of the central nervous system during embryonic development, specifically focusing on the genes that help pattern the brain regions. These genes are expressed in a specific pattern along the mid-hindbrain boundary (MHB), which separates the midbrain from the hindbrain. The authors analyze the spatial patterns of eight genes that are important for patterning the MHB, including Otx2, Gbx2, Wnt1, Fgf8, En1, En2, Pax2, and Pax5. They use Boolean models, which represent the different genes and their interactions as mathematical formulas, to predict how these genes interact with each other. They then validate these predictions by performing experiments with mouse embryos and neural tube explants. Overall, the article provides a comprehensive analysis of the genes that are important for patterning the MHB and how they interact with each other.
Theileria annulata and Theileria parva are parasites that infect cattle and cause lymphoproliferative diseases in Asia and Africa. These parasites have the ability to take over and control the functions of host cells. They do this by interacting with host cell microtubules (MTs). In this study, the researchers found that a protein called p104, which is found on the surface of the parasite schizont, interacts with EB1, which is a protein that helps control the growth of MTs. The p104 protein interacts with EB1 using an SxIP motif, which is a common feature of many proteins that interact with EB1. The researchers think that p104 may be involved in helping the parasite take over and control host cells.
In cells, DNA is replicated during the process of mitosis, or cell division, under normal growth conditions. This replication can sometimes lead to DNA damage, especially at hard-to-replicate regions of the genome. When a replication fork stalls or breaks, it is recognized as a site of DNA damage, which activates a signaling cascade called the DNA damage response (DDR). This cascade is made up of several steps, including phosphorylation (the transfer of a phosphate group from one molecule to another), which helps transduce the signal from the sensors, adaptors, and effector kinases. The end result of this cascade is the induction of cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. When a replication fork breaks, it generates a one-ended DNA double-strand break (DSB) that can be repaired by different mechanisms depending on the nature of the broken end. Homologous recombination, synthesis dependent strand annealing, and break-induced replication (BIR) are three such mechanisms that can repair a one-ended DSB. Unlike conventional DNA replication, BIR involves a conservative replication mode and requires the Polδ subunit Pol32 and the 5′→3′ helicase Pif1. Telomeres, the ends of chromosomes, are usually maintained by a mechanism called telomerase, which adds a DNA sequence to the end of a telomere. Telomerase activity is tightly coupled to conventional DNA replication and occurs in the S/G2 phase of the cell cycle. However, under certain conditions, such as DNA damage, telomerase can also add a telomere to a non-telomeric DNA end, such as a DSB or a broken replication fork. This can lead to a terminal deletion. It has been known that the Pif1 helicase is a negative regulator of telomerase at telomeres under normal growth conditions. However, when DNA damage occurs, the Pif1 helicase is phosphorylated, and this inhibits telomerase activity at broken DNA ends. Moreover, activation of BIR in cells with DNA damage leads to telomere lengthening, which may provide an additional layer of telomere protection against the DNA repair machinery. Thus, the DNA damage-induced phosphorylation of Pif1 promotes potentially telomere-stabilizing telomere extension while repressing deleterious de novo telomere addition events at DNA breaks, thereby funneling the broken DNA into appropriate genome-preserving repair pathways.
Onchocerciasis, or "river blindness," is a disease caused by a filarial parasite called Onchocerca volvulus (Ov). It can lead to blindness and disabling dermatitis. Despite past and ongoing control measures, there are still 37 million people infected with Ov, and 90 million people at risk. There is concern about ivermectin resistance and serious adverse events associated with its administration. To support elimination programs for onchocerciasis, different criteria have been proposed, including sensitive molecular xenomonitoring of infection in the Simulium vectors, epidemiologic and clinical criteria, and proven diagnostic assessments. Skin snipping was the primary method for detecting microfilariae, but serological tests have largely supplanted it because they are less invasive, more sensitive, and can detect pre-patent infection. A field-applicable diagnostic immunoassay based on a recombinant Ov-16 antigen showed 80% sensitivity for detecting Ov-infected sera. However, these tests have difficulty discriminating Ov-infected sera from other filarial infections. Recently, a new immunoassay called LIPS (luciferase immunoprecipitation systems) was developed to measure antibody responses to intestinal nematodes like Strongyloides stercoralis and filarial nematodes like Loa loa. In this study, LIPS was used to assess Ov-specific antibodies. The results demonstrate that the LIPS assay is highly sensitive and specific for identifying Ov infection, and a rapid 15-minute version of the assay (QLIPS) can also be used.
Iron deficiency is a common problem among women of reproductive age and children. This can be due to an increased demand for iron during pregnancy, limited intake of heme iron, and hookworm infection with associated gastrointestinal blood loss. In many countries, women are recommended to take daily iron-folic acid supplements from the first antenatal visit until three months post-partum. However, this strategy has not been effective due to poor compliance and variable coverage. For women to be iron sufficient when not pregnant, it is important to maintain regular iron-folic acid supplementation over extended periods. A survey of women aged 16-45 years in two districts of a northern rural province in Vietnam found that more than one third of the women were anemic, with a high prevalence of hookworm infection. To address this issue, a program was implemented to provide regular de-worming and weekly iron-folic acid supplementation. The program has shown improvements in hematological outcomes, including an increase in mean hemoglobin levels and a decrease in the prevalence of anemia, iron deficiency, and soil transmitted helminth infection. Predictive factors for hematological outcomes include baseline hemoglobin levels and the presence of hookworm infection.
Herpesviruses, which are widespread viruses that establish lifelong infections in their hosts, encode immune evasion molecules that interfere with cell-mediated immunity. These molecules are not required for viral replication in vitro but may be required for viral persistence in vivo. The human herpesvirus Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) encodes the glycoprotein gp150, which interferes with immune recognition of Ag-presenting molecules at the cell surface. This may be a novel immune evasion mechanism in herpesviruses. EBV gp150 is not essential for viral replication in vitro but may play a role in the control of EBV infection in vivo.
Chlamydia trachomatis is a bacteria that causes blindness and is sexually transmitted. It goes through different forms during its life cycle, including an extracellular form called an elementary body and an intracellular form called a reticulate body. These different forms switch inside a protective structure called an inclusion. Chlamydia attaches to cells by using actin, a protein found in cells that helps them move and change shape. Drugs that stop actin from working prevent chlamydia from infecting cells. Chlamydia also has a special protein called Tarp that can make actin form on its own. Tarp comes in different forms in different species of chlamydia. We found that all chlamydial species have a part of Tarp that can make actin form, and that all chlamydial species have a special peptide that can block this process. We also found that this peptide can reduce how easily chlamydia can infect cells. This suggests that Tarp's actin-forming ability may be important for chlamydia to infect cells.
Schistosoma japonicum is a parasite that causes schistosomiasis in people and animals in Asia. It affects countries such as China, the Philippines, and Indonesia. Many different types of animals can carry this parasite, including bovines (cattle) and water buffaloes. This makes it hard to control the disease, and it also causes economic problems for communities because it makes cattle weak and unable to do their jobs. There are problems with current methods of looking at the parasite's eggs in the animals' feces. We have found a new method, called the formalin–ethyl acetate sedimentation-digestion (FEA–SD) method, that makes it easier to see the eggs. We tested this method using feces from naturally infected water buffaloes in China and carabao, a type of water buffalo found in the Philippines. The FEA–SD method is just as good as using real-time PCR (qPCR) for finding out how many animals have the parasite, but it is less expensive to use.
Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder that affects bone density and shape. There are two types of OI: dominant and recessive. Most cases of dominant OI are caused by mutations in the genes that code for collagen proteins, while recessive OI is caused by mutations in a gene called CRTAP, which is involved in post-translational modifications of collagen. The present study aimed to investigate the role of CRTAP in recessive OI. To do this, researchers used a mutation that inactivated the hydroxylase activity of CRTAP without affecting its protein structure and complex stability. They found that introducing this mutation into cells grown in vitro and mice in vivo did not change the severity of the OI phenotype. This suggests that the hydroxylase activity of CRTAP is not the main cause of the OI phenotype, and that other factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of recessive OI.
Transposable elements (TEs) are simple genetic sequences that insert themselves into a new genomic location and can cause harm to the host's genes. The P-element is a type of TE that can move horizontally and vertically. When P-element from a distant relative was transferred to Drosophila melanogaster, it spread rapidly and caused harm to its host. The P-element was initially absent from old laboratory stocks but was later introduced when the element was widespread. When P-element-carrying males were crossed with old laboratory stock females, the resulting offspring had a number of abnormalities. However, when the reciprocal cross was performed, the offspring were normal, which was due to piRNAs, a type of small RNA, targeting the P-element mRNA for degradation. The P-element is present in Drosophila simulans, which is likely due to a single transfer event.
The article presents a new method for marking male mosquitoes for better monitoring and control of mosquito-borne diseases. Traditionally, marking has been done with fluorescent powders, but these have drawbacks, such as decreased mobility and potential cross-contamination. The new method involves feeding male mosquitoes on sugar solutions containing a fluorescent dye called rhodamine B, which stains their bodies and seminal fluid. This dye appears to have minimal impact on the mosquitoes' mating behavior and lifespan. The article presents results from a series of experiments to determine the optimal feeding regime for marking, as well as any effects on the male mosquitoes. The article concludes with results from proof-of-principle field releases. Overall, the new method shows promise for improving mosquito control and monitoring efforts.
CD28 is a receptor that helps the immune system respond to threats. It is found on T cells and interacts with proteins called B7 to receive a signal necessary to quickly respond to a threat. The proteins B7-2 and B7-1 are the two types of proteins that CD28 interacts with, but B7-2 helps CD28 receive the signal right away while B7-1 helps CD28 receive the signal later. There are no other proteins that CD28 interacts with besides the B7 proteins. Some proteins called superantigens are made by bacteria and can activate T cells a lot more than regular proteins, but they still need CD28 to work. A peptide that looks like a part of CD28 called the β-strand /hinge/α-helix domain helps protect mice from superantigens. We found out that this domain is important for superantigens to work and that it is used by superantigens to interact with CD28. We also found that blocking superantigens from interacting with CD28 blocks the lethal effect of superantigens. Peptides that mimic the β-strand /hinge/α-helix domain help prevent the induction of cytokines and protect mice from superantigen exposure. This research shows that the β-strand /hinge/α-helix domain on CD28 is used by superantigens as a receptor and that CD28 plays a role in recognizing pathogens.
The Wnt/β-catenin pathway is important in the development of tissues and cancer. Tcf1 and Tcf3 are the most expressed Tcf/Lef factors in pluripotent cells. Tcf1 acts as a transcriptional activator of Wnt target genes, regulating the pluripotent gene network in pluripotent cells. Activation of the Wnt pathway reduces Tcf3 transcriptional repression, reinforcing the stability of the core pluripotency network. In pluripotent cells, activation of the Wnt pathway causes a reduction in cell proliferation and an increase in the number of cells in G1. It also downregulates cell differentiation genes, while keeping pluripotency genes unperturbed. This effect is dependent on β-catenin and Tcf1 activity. In contrast to its mitogenic effect in somatic cells, the Wnt/β-catenin pathway triggers an anti-proliferative effect in pluripotent cells.
The article discusses the important role of dendritic cells, particularly plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), in the body's response to the dengue virus (DENV). pDCs are a type of blood cell that produce a large amount of interferon-alpha (IFN-α) in response to virus exposure. The article describes how DENV can activate pDCs through cell endosomal activity and the toll-like receptor (TLR)-7 pathway. It also highlights how pDCs can decrease DENV infection in monocytes, which are another type of blood cell, through the effects of IFN-α produced by pDCs. The article suggests that pDC activation is a host defense against DENV-2 infection and may play a role in improving the outcome of dengue fever.
The paper discusses the role of a protein called tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in controlling Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. TNF helps the immune system fight against Mtb and form structures in the lung called granulomas. However, TNF can also cause tissue damage, which can lead to disease in people. The paper also describes the different forms of TNF (transmembrane TNF and soluble TNF) and how they work. The paper then talks about how TNF can be blocked by antibodies and fusion proteins, and how this affects the immune response against Mtb. Finally, the paper presents a mathematical model that helps understand how TNF works and how it can be blocked to control Mtb infection.
Retrocopies are gene copies created from mRNAs that are then inserted into the genome. These copies can be functional and perform a variety of different tasks, such as protein coding, acting as long noncoding RNAs, or sponging microRNAs. Researchers have found that many of these retrocopies are involved in diseases. For example, RHOB and RNF113A are tumor suppressors and trichothiodystrophy, respectively. The insertion of the PPIA cDNA into the TRIM5 gene confers resistance to HIV in owl monkeys. Recent developments in sequencing technology allow researchers to study the genetic variation of retrocopies within populations. However, there are still many unanswered questions about these gene copies. In this study, researchers used the results from the 1000 Genomes Project and RNA-Seq data to investigate variation in the loss of ancient retrocopies among human populations and variation in expression levels of these copies between individuals and populations.
Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is a serious public health problem caused by the larval stage of a parasite called Taenia solium, which is commonly found in regions where pigs are raised. NCC is a major cause of epileptic seizures in developing countries. The location of the cysticerci and the stage of the parasite can cause a wide variety of symptoms, including seizures, headache, and blurred vision. The adult tapeworm that lives in the small intestine of a human carrier produces embryonated eggs that can develop into cysticerci in the brain, muscle, and other organs. These cysticerci are different depending on their location. Parenchymal NCC is associated with seizures or focal neurological signs and is relatively easy to treat, whereas extraparenchymal NCC is associated with hydrocephalus and intracranial pressure and has a poor prognosis. The study used a naturally infected pig as a disease-based model to compare the inflammatory response after cysticidal treatment to cysticerci located in the brain parenchyma, meninges, or both. This information can help doctors better understand how to treat NCC based on the location of the cysticerci.
Yaws is a re-emerging endemic infection that is caused by Treponema pallidum ssp. pertenue. It can cause papillomatous and ulcerative skin lesions and can progress to bony involvement and destructive lesions of the nasopharynx. Azithromycin is effective in the treatment of yaws and is currently being used to eradicate the disease. However, there is a possibility that azithromycin-resistant strains of T. pallidum ssp. pertenue may emerge. To test this hypothesis, a yaws survey was conducted in Ghana, where MDA for trachoma was previously undertaken and from which cases of yaws are still reported. The survey aimed to determine whether azithromycin-resistant strains of T. pallidum ssp. pertenue and/or H. ducreyi are responsible for clinical cases of yaws seen in these districts.
This paper discusses the use of current antiretroviral therapy (ART) to treat HIV-infected individuals. While ART has been successful in controlling viral load and improving the survival of HIV-infected individuals, it does not eliminate all infected cells. These cells, known as the HIV reservoir, can persist in the body and reactivate, leading to viral dissemination. The paper discusses the role of several cytokines in the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of the HIV reservoir, including IL-2, IL-7, and IL-15. It also discusses the impact of two FDA-approved Jak inhibitors, tofacitinib and ruxolitinib, on HIV reservoir persistence and reactivation. The paper provides evidence that these inhibitors may be useful in blocking HIV reservoir expansion and viral dissemination.
Baculoviruses are viruses that infect insects. They produce two different types of viruses, which are responsible for infection transmission and spreading infection within a host. Previous studies have focused on the immune response of insects to baculovirus infection, but recent research has suggested that gut microbiota also play a role. In this study, the authors investigated the effect of baculovirus infection on gut microbiota in Spodoptera exigua cells. They found that baculovirus infection had a significant effect on gut microbiota, and that intestinal microbiota play an important role in baculovirus pathogenesis. The authors suggest that the gut microbiota may be a potential target for controlling baculovirus infection.
Apomixis is a type of asexual reproduction where seeds are produced without fertilization, resulting in genetic clones of the mother plant. This process is valuable in agriculture because it allows for perpetuation of desirable traits through seed generations. However, few crop species are apomictic and attempts to introduce this trait through crossing have been unsuccessful. An alternative approach is to de novo engineer apomixis by identifying genes that confer elements of this process. In this study, we identified a gene that controls entry into the second meiotic division in the sexual plant Arabidopsis thaliana. By combining this mutation with two other mutations that eliminate recombination and pairing and modify chromatid segregation, we created a genotype called MiMe, which replaces meiosis with mitosis. This induction of apomeiosis is an important step towards understanding and engineering apomixis.
The paper you are referring to is an interesting study that aims to improve the accuracy of gene prioritization algorithms. Current gene prioritization methods use data such as protein interaction networks and gene expression data. However, these methods do not take into account the fact that most genetic disorders tend to manifest in specific tissues. In this work, the authors propose using tissue-specific protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks to prioritize candidate genes. By combining tissue-specific gene expression data and PPI networks, the authors demonstrate an improvement in the accuracy of the gene prioritization algorithm. They also show that integrating tissue-specific information into the prioritization algorithm helps to infer new disease-tissue associations. Overall, this study highlights the importance of considering tissue specificity in network-based gene prioritization algorithms.
Insecticide resistance (IR) in mosquitoes responsible for transmitting human malaria is a growing concern. Four main strategies are being considered for insecticide deployment in public health programs: (1) sequential use, (2) mixtures, (3) rotation, and (4) mosaics. The first strategy, sequential use, involves replacing insecticides as resistance arises to the previous one. Mixtures involve co-deploying insecticides that are resistant to different mechanisms. Rotations involve periodically withdrawing and replacing insecticides regardless of their resistance profile. Mosaics involve deploying different insecticides in different settings. The study develops an open-source model that extends the work of Curtis from 1985. The model aims to provide a flexible platform for investigating operational scenarios and the impact of specific interventions on IR in mosquitoes.
Blood-sucking insects called triatomines feed on blood from humans and animals at all stages of their life cycle. To do this, they have evolved mechanisms to counteract the host's response to their feeding, such as clotting, inflammation, and immune reactions. When they bite, their salivary glands release powerful molecules that help them to get a successful blood meal. These molecules could be used to treat circulatory disorders. A study was done using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) to describe the transcripts in the salivary glands of Rhodnius neglectus, a species that feeds mainly on birds and rarely on rodents. The data from the study is available at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and can be used in scientific research projects.
In this paper, the authors describe the genetic mechanisms behind how organisms respond to their environment. They use the example of soil nematodes (tiny worms that live in soil) and how they respond to changes in their environment due to human-induced environmental change. The authors use an ecological genomic approach to study this interaction in the laboratory. They focus on bacterial-feeding nematodes, which are abundant in soils and important members of grassland belowground food webs. These nematodes have been shown to be among the most responsive to various disturbance regimes. The authors use the genetically tractable nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as a model to identify differentially expressed genes when exposed to different grassland soil bacteria. They determine the functional significance of a subset of these genes by measuring the fitness and lifespan of mutant nematodes in these bacterial environments. Their results show that many of the genes specifically induced in response to different bacteria contribute to nematode fitness and lifespan in those bacterial environments. The authors propose that examination of differential gene expression in different environments allows for prediction of degree of mutational effects of those genes in those environments. This is the first evidence, to their knowledge, that there is indeed good predictive power for the effects of mutant phenotypes in an environment-specific manner. The examination of C . elegans gene function in new environments has also uncovered new phenotypes for previously studied genes as well as genes that had not been shown to have obvious phenotypes under standard laboratory conditions.
The research team aimed to create a model that would explain how the different cell types in a preimplantation embryo decide their fate. They developed a model that incorporated information on cell movements, gene expression, and cell divisions, and used it to test different hypotheses about how these factors may influence embryonic organization. They collected gene expression data from the cells of a developing mouse embryo and used it to inform their model. They then used the model to simulate different scenarios and to test the model's predictions. The results of their investigation suggest that the inside-outside based mechanism is most responsible for the high level of robustness observed in the developing embryo, and that gene expression noise can aid in correcting errors and promoting robust organization. They also found that asymmetries in noise sources and a gradual, rather than switch-like, process of cell fate specification have critical roles in organization. These findings suggest that regulative processes that allow cells to dynamically read their environment and react accordingly have important roles in organization, and that some forms of noise can aid in correcting errors and establishing proper organization in the system.
The study aimed to understand how antibodies can recognize and bind to different antigens. Researchers compared the sequences of antibodies that are specific for certain antigens with the sequences of antibodies that are specific for multiple antigens. They used a computer program called Rosetta to design antibodies that could bind to multiple antigens. The researchers found that the antibodies that were designed to bind to multiple antigens had a high degree of similarity to the sequences of the antibodies that were specific for multiple antigens. This finding supports the idea that antibodies can be designed to bind to multiple antigens using a single sequence. The study also found that the framework regions of the antibodies that were designed to bind to multiple antigens were important for the polyspecificity of the antibodies. This suggests that the framework regions of antibodies play a role in determining their ability to bind to multiple antigens. Overall, the study provides insight into the mechanisms of antibody binding to antigens and can help in the design of new antibodies for therapeutic applications.
Locusts are voracious insects that form destructive swarms and inflict immense damage to agriculture and environment. Periodic droughts may cause locust outbreaks, which lead to phase transitions from solitarious to gregarious behavior and group formation. The behavior of individual locusts is influenced by the local population density, which can trigger a transition from the solitary to the gregarious phase. In the gregarious phase, locusts form dense groups and exhibit coordinated behavior. In this study, we investigate the onset of a locust outbreak by developing a continuum mathematical model of behavioral phase for gregarious and solitarious locusts. Our model is based on the assumption that locusts exhibit isotropic social interactions, which are influenced by the local population density. We find that a dense group of gregarious locusts suddenly emerges as the population density increases, while the ratio of gregarious to solitarious locusts remains constant. Our model also displays population-level hysteresis, which has implications for locust management.
The article explains how membrane fusion—the process by which viruses fuse with target cells—is tightly controlled by specific proteins. Many viruses use only a single protein to mediate this process, which makes them a good model for understanding the membrane fusion mechanism in mechanistic terms. The fusion proteins exist in a metastable conformation, which undergoes structural rearrangements when exposed to an appropriate trigger (e.g., acidic pH or receptor interactions) to drive the fusion process. In this work, the authors use tick-borne encephalitis virus as a model to study the membrane fusion process of class II flaviviruses. They found that the fusion protein exists in a monomeric conformation that may be a transient intermediate in the fusion pathway.
The rapid loss of biodiversity is a major ecological challenge, and humans are the primary cause. Currently, one-fourth of global productivity is diverted to human consumption, and one-third of land area has been transformed for human use. The Red List of Threatened Species from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has been recording the decline of biodiversity for over four decades. There are currently 47,978 species on the IUCN Red List, of which 17,315 are threatened with extinction. In plants, over 70% of currently listed species are classified as at risk of extinction. However, there is an uneven distribution of threat across taxonomic ranks. Life history traits, such as pollination syndrome, sexual system, habit, height, and dispersal mode, have been studied in plants but seem to correlate poorly with species rarity or threat status. However, taxonomic structure in the distribution of threat in the absence of any strong correlation with heritable biological traits requires an explanation. The study explores the distribution of extinction risks for two of the best-studied floras, the Cape of South Africa and the United Kingdom. The Cape flora was assembled via post-glacial recolonization and range expansion, while the UK flora is a global biodiversity hotspot. The study identifies the factors likely driving extinctions and reveals an unusual phylogenetic signal in extinction risks for plants. Species' present-day vulnerabilities can be explained by their recent evolutionary past.
In this study, researchers found two new proteins that work together to help the body fight fungal infections. These proteins, Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) and Vav1, help the body recognize and get rid of fungi. The researchers found that these proteins work together to form a special kind of molecule called a phosphoinositide, which helps the body's immune system recognize and kill fungi. They also found that BTK and Vav1 are important for the body to fight fungal infections, because mice that don't have these proteins are more likely to get sick from fungi.
The Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is a virus that can spread to both animals and humans. In Madagascar, RVFV has caused outbreaks in both cattle and humans in the past. It is not clear where the virus came from or how it spreads, but it is believed to be transmitted through insect bites or direct contact with infected animal fluids. The virus is found in different environments, such as wet forests, irrigated agricultural land, and arid areas. In Madagascar, it is important to understand where the virus is found and how it spreads to better protect people and animals from getting sick.
The article discusses the discovery of prions in yeast and other organisms, including humans. Prions are proteins that can exist in two different forms: a soluble form and an aggregated form. Prion aggregates are made of the same protein molecules that are stacked on top of each other through the formation of inter-molecular β-strands perpendicular to the fiber axis. These aggregates are self-propagating and can be passed down to future generations. The article highlights the recent discovery of infectivity of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, which is caused by prion aggregates of the PrP protein. The article also discusses the different types of prions found in yeast and how they are transmitted. The article concludes with a discussion of the different properties of prions and how they can be used as a model for studying protein conformations.
Several machine learning methods have been developed to study population genetics, but many do not explicitly infer both population size changes and selection. We used an approach called Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ) to infer both parameters. ABC is a likelihood-free inference method that uses simulated datasets to estimate the posterior distribution. However, ABC can suffer from several issues, such as the curse of dimensionality, inaccurate rejection algorithm, and difficulty interpreting output. We addressed these issues by using a deep learning approach to learn a function from the input summary statistics to the population genetic parameters of interest. We used a neural network with a single hidden layer to learn the function. We trained the network using pretraining and fine-tuning with backpropagation. Our approach provided a more accurate and stable estimate of the posterior distribution compared to previous methods. Additionally, our deep learning approach allowed us to interpret the output of ABC in terms of which statistics were the most informative for each parameter.
Scientists have found that high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause genomic instability, which increases the risk of cancer. This happens when HPV oncogenes (viral proteins that cause cellular changes) interact with host tumor suppressors and DNA damage repair (DDR) proteins, which leads to impaired DDR. In this study, researchers focused on how HPV oncogenes affect the FA-BRCA pathway, which is involved in the repair of inter- or intra-strand crosslinks (ICLs). ICLs can block DNA replication and transcription, leading to cell death if not repaired. The FA pathway helps repair these crosslinks and protects cells from damage. The researchers found that HPV E6 and E7 oncogenes can delay the deubiquitination of FancD2 (a protein involved in DNA repair) and impair its ability to form foci at double-strand breaks. This suggests that HPV oncogenes can impair the FA pathway and contribute to the genomic instability associated with HPV infections.
Onchocerciasis is a disease caused by a parasite that lives inside the skin and can cause blindness. This parasite is spread by a type of fly found in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, and Venezuela. In Mexico, this disease was found in three places: Southern Chiapas, Northern Chiapas, and Oaxaca. The Southern Chiapas region was the worst affected area in Mexico, and the disease was very common there. To fight this disease, people have been taking a medicine called Mectizan (ivermectin) every year since 1994. In 2003, the frequency of the medicine was increased from twice a year to four times a year in some places. This study shows that, based on certain criteria, the transmission of this parasite has been stopped in Southern Chiapas, which means that people there will no longer get infected.
In bacteria, they use a variety of ways to communicate with each other. One of these ways is through the secretion and sensing of small signal molecules called peptide pheromones. These peptide pheromones are made by bacterial cells and trigger changes in the same cell or in receiver cells. For Gram-positive bacteria, one of the ways of making these peptide pheromones is through the synthesis of small peptide molecules that are secreted by bacterial cells. These peptide molecules then stimulate membrane receptors within the receiver cells, which trigger a signal cascade within the receiver cell. This type of peptide pheromone signaling system has been described in many Gram-positive bacteria, including Listeria monocytogenes. L . monocytogenes is a type of bacteria that is found in the soil, but it can also cause disease in humans when consumed through contaminated food products. In this study, the authors discovered a new type of peptide pheromone in L . monocytogenes called pPplA. This peptide pheromone is involved in intracellular growth and bacterial virulence. The authors examined the role of this peptide pheromone in L . monocytogenes and found that it is important for the bacterium to cause disease in a mammalian host. This discovery could help us understand how L . monocytogenes causes disease and could help us find new ways to treat or prevent infections caused by this bacterium.
Cholera is a disease caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae and spreads through contaminated food and water. In order to survive in harsh environments, V . cholerae is able to activate or repress certain virulence genes depending on the environment. One of the stresses that V . cholerae must overcome is exposure to reactive radical species, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS) which are abundant in marine systems and during later stages of infection. V . cholerae has mechanisms in place to resist ROS, such as the DNA-binding protein DPS and catalases. In this study, the authors used Tn-seq to identify V . cholerae genes involved in ROS resistance during infection. They found that deletion of mutS, a key component in the DNA methyl-directed mismatch repair (MMR) system, resulted in a colonization advantage compared to wildtype in ROS-rich mice. This suggests that hypermutators may become better persisters due to mutations resulting in increased catalase production and increased biofilm formation.
In this study, the authors describe a new method for creating mutant versions of the protein Mlh1-Mlh3, which is involved in meiosis and mismatch repair in yeast. They then analyzed the effects of these mutations on both meiosis and mismatch repair. The authors found that some mutations specifically disrupted meiosis, while others specifically disrupted mismatch repair. They then used a new technique called biochemical assays to examine the protein interactions between Mlh1-Mlh3 and other proteins involved in meiosis and mismatch repair. The results of these assays suggest that the defects seen in their mutants can be explained by a weakening of protein-protein interactions. The authors also used high-resolution recombination mapping to analyze the effects of these mutations on meiotic recombination intermediates. They found that defective meiotic components can alter the fate of these intermediates. Overall, this study provides new insights into the role of Mlh1-Mlh3 in meiosis and mismatch repair, and highlights the importance of protein-protein interactions in these processes.
This paper looks at the problem of antibiotic resistance and how it can be controlled. The authors suggest that there are several factors that can slow down or stop the development of antibiotic resistance, including changes in treatment guidelines and economic factors. They also discuss the importance of the evolutionary dynamics of resistance in different types of diseases. The authors provide a mathematical model to predict how resistance develops and how it can be controlled. The model is based on the idea that resistance develops in response to changes in treatment. The authors suggest that changes in treatment patterns can lead to the development of resistance to antibiotics. They also discuss the importance of taking steps to reduce the spread of resistant strains. The authors provide a mathematical model to predict how resistance develops and how it can be controlled. The model is based on the idea that resistance develops in response to changes in treatment. The authors suggest that changes in treatment patterns can lead to the development of resistance to antibiotics. They also discuss the importance of taking steps to reduce the spread of resistant strains.
The study aimed to identify genetic interactions that contribute to neurological disorders such as autism spectrum disorders (ASD). To do this, the authors used fruit flies, Drosophila melanogaster, as a model organism to study neurological phenotypes such as abnormalities in larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) bouton number and circadian defects apparent through abnormalities in adult sleep rest cycles. The authors focused their attention on the unique Drosophila orthologues of genes affected by these CNVs whose protein products had previously been found to participate in an ASD-associated interaction network and had a role in neural functioning. The authors show that pairwise crosses between heterozygously-mutated genes yield neurological defects comparable to the monogeneic models. They also observe that when the direction of copy change of the orthologues in individuals with ASD is considered, the observed effect at the Drosophila synapse supports a model of convergent phenotypic outcome between distinct synergistically-interacting gene pairs. No effects were observed among gene pairs that included neuronally-expressed Drosophila genes whose orthologues were affected by these CNVs but that were not part of the ASD-associated network. The authors show that the combinations of genes drawn from these CNVs that interact are specific, supporting distinct molecular aetiologies underlying ASD. They also show that these specific interactions affect different molecular processes at the Drosophila synapse, supporting the role of distinct molecular ASD related aetiologies. In total, the authors identified synergistically-interacting orthologous pairs among 3/4 of the CNVs considered, demonstrating novel synergistic interactions that may contribute to the aetiology of autism.
Malaria is a major global health problem that causes about 207 million cases and 584,000 to 1,238,000 deaths every year. One of the reasons for the high mortality rate is cerebral malaria (CM), a neurological syndrome that can develop after infection with the parasite Plasmodium falciparum. There is currently no effective treatment for CM, and even after treatment, the mortality rate remains high. To better understand the development of CM and to develop improved treatments, researchers are studying a mouse model called experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). In ECM, a type of Plasmodium parasite called Pb ANKA causes a neurological syndrome similar to CM. When susceptible mice become infected with Pb ANKA, they develop neurological symptoms like ataxia, convulsions, paralysis, and coma between 6 and 8 days after infection. These symptoms are caused by the accumulation of leukocytes and parasites in the brain and the disruption of blood vessels in the brain. CD8+ T cells, a type of immune cell, have been shown to play a role in the development of ECM, but the specific location of CD8+ T cells in the brain and the mechanism by which they cause ECM are unknown. In this study, researchers used a technique called transcranial intravital two-photon microscopy to observe the behavior of T cells in the brains of mice with ECM. They found that T cells are recruited to and accumulate in the subarachnoid and perivascular spaces of the brain, and that a high proportion of these T cells exhibit arrested behavior, consistent with the formation of immunological synapses with other cells in the meninges during ECM. The researchers also found that T cells can cause ECM without interacting with professional antigen-presenting cells or causing apoptosis. These findings suggest a new mechanism for the development of ECM and may lead to the development of new treatments for CM.
Tungiasis, also known as jigger infestation, is a disease caused by parasitic worms that typically occur in people living in poverty and in close contact with domestic animals. It is not officially recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO), but it affects many people around the world, especially in tropical and subtropical areas. The disease is endemic in many countries, but it is difficult to identify the exact areas affected. The burden of tungiasis is unknown, and there is a need to map the disease to better understand where the affected communities are and how severe the infection is. A study was done in Kenya to map tungiasis and identify potential risk factors. The study found that children and the elderly are most affected during peak transmission. Factors that aggravate the problem include living on earthen or dusty floors, not wearing closed footwear, sleeping on the floor, and keeping animals like cows, goats, chickens on the compound. The study maps the distribution of tungiasis in Kenya and provides recommendations for controlling or eliminating the disease.
This article is about how vascular tissues in plants develop and what hormones are involved in this process. The authors suggest that cytokinin and auxin interact in a way that helps plants form the right kind of vascular tissues. They also suggest that there are specific patterns in the way that these hormones are distributed in the tissues and that this is important for the development of the tissues. The authors use computer simulations to test their ideas and find that the interaction between these hormones helps to make the vascular tissues more resistant to changes in the environment.
Behavioral plasticity allows animals to adapt to their environment by changing their behavior in response to stimuli. This can occur at different time scales, and is influenced by a variety of neural modulators and transcription factors. In this study, the authors aimed to understand the signaling cascade by which transcription factors regulate downstream gene transcription in response to changes in population density in locusts. They discovered several novel components of the NPF/NO signaling cascade underlying phase-related locomotor plasticity in locusts.
During early stages of embryogenesis, the zygotic genome is mostly inactive and development is controlled by maternally provided mRNAs and proteins. At a specific point in development, known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT), the zygotic genome is activated and development is controlled by the zygotic transcripts. This activation occurs in a coordinated manner with the degradation of the maternally provided RNAs. In Drosophila melanogaster, during mitotic cycle 14, the blastoderm nuclei cellularize and general zygotic transcription is initiated. However, some specific genes required for sex determination, pattern formation, and cellularization are transcribed as early as cycle 8. These genes contain a common set of heptameric DNA motifs that regulate early gene expression. The most important factor in regulating early gene expression is the zinc-finger transcription factor Zelda (ZLD). ZLD is essential for embryonic mitosis and cellularization. In ZLD-depleted embryos, 120 genes were identified whose proper expression during early embryogenesis is dependent on ZLD. ChIP-Seq was used to determine the genomic landscape of ZLD binding as the embryo progresses through the MZT. The results show that ZLD binds to DNA throughout the genome, with a preference for regions that contain a specific sequence.
Circadian clocks are present in almost all living organisms and regulate many of their functions on a 24-hour cycle. In mammals, the circadian clock is made up of a group of interacting genes that produce proteins that work together to regulate gene expression. These proteins form complexes and interact with each other in a specific way to control the timing of gene expression. A lot of the proteins in the body are part of complexes or groups that work together. These complexes or groups are called modules. It is thought that many of the functions of cells are controlled by modules that work together in a time-dependent manner. In this study, the researchers used a technique called yeast-two-hybrid to find out which proteins in the circadian clock are part of modules that work together. They found 109 new interactions between proteins in the circadian clock. They then used another technique called co-immunoprecipitation to confirm some of these interactions. They also looked at how the timing of interactions between these proteins changes over time. They found that the timing of interactions between proteins in the circadian clock is important for the normal functioning of the clock. They also found that many of the modules that make up the circadian clock are organized in a time-dependent way, meaning that they work together at different times of the day. This could be important for controlling many of the functions of cells in the body. The researchers found that 109 new interactions between proteins in the circadian clock are part of modules that work together. They also looked at how the timing of these interactions changes over time. They found that the timing of these interactions is important for the normal functioning of the circadian clock. They also found that many of the modules that make up the circadian clock are organized in a time-dependent way, meaning that they work together at different times of the day. This could be important for controlling many of the functions of cells in the body.
Tandemly repetitive polyproteins (TRPs) are proteins that are made up of repeated units of similar or identical amino acid sequences. Unlike other proteins, the units of TRPs are usually similar in structure and have similar biochemical activities. Filaggrins are a type of TRP that is produced by skin cells and are important for skin structure. Nematode polyprotein allergens (NPAs) are another type of TRP that is produced by nematode worms and can cause allergic reactions in humans. No one knows why more proteins are not synthesized as TRPs. Scientists have now solved the structure of one unit of an NPA from a nematode worm in solution. The unit, called ABA-1A, has a unique seven-helical fold and two discrete hydrophobic cavities that could be used to bind lipids.
The developing Pacific Island Countries and Territories (PICTs) are at increasing risk from both acute and chronic diseases, such as HIV/AIDS and obesity, and are also highly vulnerable to environmental impacts from sea level rise and extreme weather events associated with global warming. Ciguatera is a tropical and subtropical disease that is prevalent in island communities and might be increasing in incidence due to increasing vulnerabilities (such as poverty, global warming, and eutrophication) in these populations. Ciguatera is caused by the consumption of coral reef fish contaminated by ciguatoxin and related toxins from dinoflagellates (microalgae) and cyanobacteria. Ciguatoxin bioaccumulates up the food web either directly from incidental uptake by herbivorous fish or indirectly by carnivorous fish. After the consumption of coral reef fish contaminated with ciguatoxin, people experience potentially severe acute neurologic, gastrointestinal, and cardiac symptoms as well as, in some cases, chronic neurologic symptoms lasting weeks to months. Ciguatera occurs globally, in tropical waters, and is particularly prevalent across the PICTs. Cases of ciguatera have also been reported in temperate regions of the world due to travel and coral reef fish export. Ciguatera poisoning is often under-diagnosed and under-reported, with only 2 to 10% of cases reported to health authorities. Estimates of the incidence of ciguatera in Oceania have ranged from 0.5/10,000/year in Hawaii to 5,850/10,000/year in French Polynesia. Fish is the staple protein source in many PICT communities, with many islands in the region suffering ongoing outbreaks of ciguatera when toxic fish are consumed. Dinoflagellates of the genus Gambierdiscus, which grow epiphytically on macro- and turf-algae on coral reefs, produce the ciguatoxins that cause ciguatera. Coral reef damage or when algal growth is not controlled by herbivorous fish might increase the risk of ciguatera. Despite extensive research, we know little about the ecology and the environmental factors that cause the blooms of the ciguatera causative organisms, nor do we understand the role (if any) of other dinoflagellate genera, including Ostreopsis (palytoxin producers) and Prorocentrum (okadaic acid and dinophysistoxins producers), or marine cyanobacteria. Presently, ciguatoxin can only be detected in fish and Gambierdiscus in specialized labs, and diagnosis in humans is based almost exclusively on symptoms associated with the recent consumption of a potential ciguateric fish. Several factors have been associated with ciguatera cases and the presence of ciguatoxic dinoflagellates, including military activities causing coral reef damage in the Pacific, elevated sea surface temperatures associated with global warming, nutrient enrichment, and warming sea surface temperatures, which have been shown to stimulate Gambierdiscus growth resulting in higher cell densities. Changes in global climate patterns, increased degradation of coastal marine environments through coastal development and land run-off, and increased exploitation of coastal marine resources are predicted to continue to increase the incidence of ciguatera cases in the future. Therefore, we hypothesized that ciguatera incidence is an increasing human health and ecological concern across the PICTs. To test this hypothesis, we report on changes in ciguatera incidence across the Pacific, and the social consequences of changing ciguatera incidence by comparing two 11-year periods of data: 1973–1983 vs 1998–2008.
Chagas disease is a serious public health problem caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi, which infects millions of people worldwide, and causes approximately 20,000 deaths per year. The main treatment for Chagas disease is benznidazole (BNZ), but it has side effects such as cutaneous, gastrointestinal, and neurological disorders. The effectiveness of BNZ during the chronic phase of Chagas disease is controversial, but several studies have shown that it can improve the immune system and prevent the development of heart disease. In the present study, the authors analyzed the population of a rare type of immune cell called CD4+CD8+ T cells in patients with Chagas disease. These cells are important for the control of the infection and can be affected by the exhaustion process, which occurs when the immune system is constantly exposed to the parasite and cannot function properly. The authors found that the frequency of CD4+CD8+ T cells was increased in patients with Chagas disease, and that they responded to the parasite's antigens, suggesting that they play an important role in the control of the infection. Furthermore, the authors analyzed the exhaustion process in these cells and found that it was more pronounced in patients with more severe stages of disease. Finally, the authors analyzed whether BNZ treatment could improve the function of these cells, and they found that it reduced the exhaustion process and improved the antigen-specific response. In conclusion, this study provides important information on the role of CD4+CD8+ T cells in the control of Chagas disease and their response to treatment.
The phosphoinositides are important signaling molecules in plants, animals, and bacteria, and are made from phosphatidylinositol through a final step of hydrolysis into IP3 and DAG by phospholipase C (PLC). There are two types of PLC in Arabidopsis: non-specific PLC (NPC) that hydrolyzes abundant phospholipids, and phosphoinositide-specific PLC (PI-PLC) that specifically hydrolyzes phosphoinositides. Nine genes are annotated as Arabidopsis PI-PLC (AtPLC) genes, which are involved in various stress-induced signaling. In this study, the researchers isolated and analyzed mutants of multiple AtPLC isoforms. Lipidomic profiling showed that AtPLC2 is a primary PI-PLC in phosphoinositide metabolism. AtPLC2 protein is highly expressed in trichomes of young rosettes, young floral buds, and vascular tissues of leaves, petals, and roots. Subcellular localization study showed that AtPLC2 is found in the plasma membranes in different cell types. The plc2-1 mutant showed seedling growth defects and enhanced susceptibility to stress affecting ER homeostasis. Thus, AtPLC2 is a major PI-PLC affecting phosphoinositide levels and ER stress tolerance.
The paper proposes a way to measure the cause-effect power of complex systems that are made up of many smaller components. Traditionally, scientists assume that the cause-effect power of a complex system is determined by the cause-effect power of its smallest components. However, the paper argues that this is not always true and that a complex system can sometimes have more cause-effect power than the sum of its parts. The paper presents a mathematical framework for measuring the cause-effect power of a complex system at different spatiotemporal scales, including the smallest scale (i.e. the individual components) and larger scales (i.e. black-boxed groups of components). The paper then applies this framework to a simple model of a neuron and shows that the cause-effect power of the neuron is greater than the cause-effect power of its individual components. This finding suggests that emergent properties of complex systems can sometimes lead to greater cause-effect power than what is possible at the level of their individual components.
Mitochondria are organelles in our cells that produce energy. As part of this process, they make something called reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS are made when electrons move around in the mitochondria. These electrons can come from different parts of the mitochondria. Researchers have been trying to understand more about the different parts that make ROS and how they change depending on certain conditions. To do this, they use a mathematical model to describe the process of ROS production. They have already built a model that explains how one part of the mitochondria makes ROS, and now they are working on a bigger model that includes all the different parts that make ROS. They hope to understand more about how ROS are made and how they affect the mitochondria.
Intracellular transport is a crucial process that is carried out by motor proteins such as kinesin, dynein, and myosins. These motor proteins move along microtubules to transport various cargoes. In vivo, multiple motor proteins work together to transport a common cargo. However, the behavior of such an ensemble of motor proteins is not well understood. In this study, a new method was developed to study the behavior of an ensemble of motor proteins and the emergent properties that arise from their interaction with each other. The method is based on a mathematical framework called the Master Equation and is implemented using a computer simulation. The study showed that the ensemble of motor proteins exhibits several interesting properties such as an increase in run-length and a decrease in the velocity of the cargo. The study also showed that mutations in the motor proteins can have a significant effect on the behavior of the ensemble. The method developed in this study can be used to study the behavior of motor proteins in various cellular processes and can help us understand the mechanisms underlying these processes.
The ability to learn, adapt to situations, and predict outcomes is crucial to living beings, including humans and rodents. To accomplish this, animals like humans use heuristics, strategies, and ecological biases to infer the structure of their environment and make predictions. Since the environment is often partially observable and has an infinite space of possibilities, these processes can be computationally intractable. Animals like humans rely on different previously acquired or predisposed strategies to solve learning tasks, rather than on a uniform mechanism. In this study, we examined the learning strategies used by two groups of mice, Cav1 . 2NesCre and Cav1 . 2fl/fl. The Cav1 . 2NesCre mice had a genetic modification that caused severe learning deficits, while the Cav1 . 2fl/fl mice had normal gene expression. We found that Cav1 . 2NesCre mice used different behavioral strategies than Cav1 . 2fl/fl mice, but they did not have a general learning deficit.
Scientists are trying to use bacteria called Wolbachia to fight mosquito-borne viruses such as dengue and Zika. Wolbachia are already present in some mosquitoes and they can stop viruses from spreading in the insects. Wolbachia can be transferred from one type of mosquito to another and this is currently being tried in an effort to reduce the spread of dengue and Zika viruses. However, the transmission of Wolbachia can be affected by environmental factors, such as temperature. Researchers found that if mosquitoes develop at high temperatures, the bacteria's ability to spread through the population and cause cytoplasmic incompatibility is reduced. This means that the bacteria may not be effective in reducing the spread of viruses if the mosquitoes are exposed to high temperatures. The researchers suggest that different Wolbachia strains may be suitable for different environmental conditions, but further research is needed to determine the best approach.
Adenoviruses were discovered in the 1950s and they infect many different animals, including humans. Initially, they were classified into four subgroups based on their ability to agglutinate rat and rhesus erythrocytes. However, as more information became available, other attributes, such as the ability to induce tumors in rodents and the molecular masses of capsid proteins, were used to expand the subgroups to six (A to F). Some reservations have been expressed about the justification of assigning a separate subgroup to HAdV-4, the only defined human adenovirus member of subgroup E. Infections with HAdV-C are a common cause of pediatric upper respiratory tract infections, while HAdV-B causes epidemics in adults. Both HAdV-B and HAdV-E have been found to cause infections in the setting of military boot camps. The prevalence of neutralizing antibodies to HAdV-C has been found to be high in Europe, USA, and Africa, while the prevalence of antibodies to HAdV-B is comparatively lower in a European cohort. HAdV-F is frequently implicated as a cause of infectious diarrheas worldwide, but other adenovirus serotypes were also frequently co-isolated under these conditions. Less is known about the natural history of naturally occurring adenovirus infections in humans, but recombinant forms of human adenoviruses have been aggressively pursued as vectors for human gene therapy and genetic vaccines. Natural history studies of large cohorts of families in Seattle and Long Island showed that clinical sequelae of adenovirus infections and recovery of virus in immune competent humans are self-limited, although prolonged shedding was observed in a subset of individuals. An early clue to the biology of adenovirus infections in great apes was provided by Hillis in 1963 in a study which attempted to isolate the cause of transmissible hepatitis in chimpanzees. He recovered from stool of 25/87 chimpanzees an uncharacterized cytopathic virus that grew in vitro but was not related to hepatitis. He concluded that “there are a number of enterically excreted viruses in the chimpanzee, some or all of which may be part of the animal's ‘normal flora’ ”.
Scientists have studied the structure and behavior of a small unit of DNA called a nucleosome. They found that the DNA is wrapped around a core of eight histone proteins, forming a tight coil. However, this coil needs to be loosened for DNA to be accessed and manipulated. The scientists used a combination of experimental and computational methods to study the loosening of the coil and found that it occurs in a specific way. The outermost part of the DNA coil is loosened and then re-tightened, with this process happening about 5 times faster than the inner part of the coil. The outermost part of the coil is also easier to loosen than the inner part. The scientists used molecular dynamics simulations to gain insight into the behavior of the histone proteins and DNA. They found that the proteins interact with the DNA in a periodic way, with each interaction occurring about 5 base pairs apart. The scientists also found that the histone tails (the flexible parts of the protein) have different effects on the stability of the outer and inner parts of the coil. The outer part of the coil is more stable due to the contribution of the histone tails, while the inner part is more stable due to the contribution of histones themselves. Overall, the scientists gained valuable insights into the behavior and structure of nucleosomal DNA and how it can be manipulated.
Lysosomes are acidic organelles that play an important role in cellular processes like recycling damaged cellular material and digesting harmful substances that enter the cell. These organelles are essential for the functioning of neurons, and their dysfunction can lead to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, as well as normal aging. The protein ApoD is consistently over-expressed in the brain in aging and neurodegenerative diseases. ApoD is involved in protecting neurons from oxidative stress and promoting their survival. In this study, the researchers found that ApoD is endocytosed into lysosomes under stress conditions, and it helps maintain the acidic pH of these organelles and their integrity. This helps prevent damage to neurons and supports their survival. The study also provides evidence that ApoD is involved in two important processes that depend on lysosomes, myelin phagocytosis and autophagy.
Visceral leishmaniasis, also known as kala-azar, is a deadly disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani and mainly occurs in the Indian subcontinent and Africa. In Africa, VL is endemic in the eastern part of the continent, including the Horn of Africa and adjacent countries such as Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, Uganda, Eritrea, and Ethiopia. In Ethiopia, the main endemic areas are located in the lowlands of the southwestern Ethiopia (e.g., Omo river plains and Segen/Woito valleys) and Metema-Humera plains in the northwest. Three sand fly species, Phlebotomus orientalis, P. celiae, and P. martini have been implicated as vectors, but P. (Larroussius) orientalis seems to be the only vector in most of Ethiopia. Despite several attempts to colonize and maintain P. orientalis, it remains difficult to do so in laboratory colonies. In this study, we focused on P. orientalis from two geographically distant Ethiopian localities, Addis Zemen and Melka Werer. We compared these two populations using Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and sequencing analysis, as well as cross-mating studies. Our study allowed us to optimize the conditions for laboratory maintenance of both colonies and to conduct experimental infections with Leishmania donovani to compare the susceptibility of both colonies.
Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasites that infect the blood vessels in the body. It is a serious health problem in many countries, especially in Africa and Asia. Advanced schistosomiasis is a more severe form of the disease that can lead to liver and spleen damage, bleeding in the stomach, and other serious complications. In China, advanced schistosomiasis is more common in rural areas where people are exposed to the parasites in the water. The disease can lead to loss of productivity and quality of life, and it can also be fatal. There is still a need for better treatments and prevention measures to reduce the burden of this disease.
Trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is a parasitic vector-borne disease that is prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa. The disease is transmitted by the bite of tsetse flies, which are insects native to Africa. There are two types of trypanosomiasis: HAT, or human African trypanosomiasis, which affects humans and is caused by the protozoa Trypanosoma brucei (T. b.), and AAT, or African animal trypanosomiasis, which affects animals such as cattle and is also caused by T. b. The tsetse fly belongs to the genus Glossina and there are three groups of tsetse flies: G. morsitans, G. palpalis and G. fusca. Tsetse flies are k-strategists, which means they thrive in specific environments defined by factors such as climate, vegetation, and fauna. The World Health Organization and public-private partnerships began programs in 2000 to enhance HAT surveillance in sub-Saharan Africa, and by 2004, the number of new cases had dropped to 17,500, with a cumulative incidence of 50,000 to 70,000 cases. However, much of rural sub-Saharan Africa lacks HAT-diagnostic capacity and passive surveillance programs, which means that the true population prevalence outside of active case-finding areas is not known. In 2007, Médecins sans Frontières found that the population prevalence rate in a rural area of the Democratic Republic of the Congo was 3.4%, with 60% of cases in the first stage of disease, suggesting intense transmission. Other countries, such as Kenya, have tsetse habitats for T. b. rhodesiense and also border countries that are in need of enhanced HAT surveillance programs. AAT also affects rural sub-Saharan Africa, and the effects of AAT most heavily impact sub-Saharan Africa's poor as 85% of these individuals live in rural areas, with over 80% relying on agriculture for their livelihoods. In Kenya, there are 7 tsetse belts, or zones, where tsetse vectors for T. b. rhodesiense and other trypanosoma agents that cause AAT are present. In 1999, the proportion of the population living in poverty within these 7 tsetse belt zones is provided. In this study, the authors will use individual level reports of disability collected during the Kenya National Census in 1999 and incorporated into the Integrated Public Use Microdata Series (IPUMS) census microdata for social and economic research to estimate the likelihood of disability in individuals, nested within households, nested within tsetse fly habitats of varying levels of poverty. They will estimate the effect of living in tsetse-endemic environments on the likelihood of disability, controlling for individual and household level differences and area-level poverty. They will also estimate the modifying effect of living in poverty and tsetse fly habitats on the likelihood of disability, controlling for individual and household level differences. It is hypothesized that (a) the prevalence of disability will be higher in tsetse belts than outside tsetse belts, regardless of poverty levels; (b) the prevalence of disability will be higher among residents than migrants because of increased duration of direct-tsetse and indirect-tsetse/poverty exposure; and (c) the prevalence of disability for residents and migrants will vary by gender and housing characteristics.
Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has effectively controlled the viral loads in HIV-infected patients, but it has not eliminated the virus. HIV persists in the body as a result of a special type of cell called latently infected cells, which carry a copy of the virus in their DNA. The virus inside these cells is not active and is resistant to the effects of HAART. To eliminate HIV from the body, scientists are trying to find ways to activate the virus in these cells so that it can be killed by the immune system. Prostratin, IL-7, and valproic acid are some of the treatments that have been tried, but they have not been very successful. Hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) is another treatment that has been tested in a lab. It activates HIV transcription, which makes the virus active and sensitive to HAART. However, scientists are still trying to understand how HMBA works and how it activates HIV transcription.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by a parasite called Leishmania that affects humans and animals. It can result in a variety of symptoms, including mucosal leishmaniasis, which can cause severe inflammation, and disseminated cutaneous leishmaniasis, which can cause skin lesions to spread to other parts of the body. Researchers have found that a parasite virus called Leishmania RNA virus (LRV) is present in some strains of Leishmania and can worsen disease symptoms. Scientists have developed methods for detecting and quantifying LRV in parasites, which could help predict the risk of leishmaniasis dissemination.
This study aimed to understand the role of actin pedestals in the pathogenesis of EHEC and EPEC. These pathogens have different mechanisms for reorganizing actin, but they can both form pedestals that help them to colonize the intestine and resist phagocytosis. The study showed that EPEC and EHEC pedestals have similar functions, but EHEC pedestals are better at enabling bacteria to move and colonize cells. This is due to faster EspFU-driven motility and a new mechanism of cell-to-cell transfer. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of pedestals in the pathogenesis of EHEC and EPEC.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are tiny particles released by cells that contain proteins, DNA, and RNA. These particles play an important role in cell-to-cell communication, but they can also be used to diagnose diseases and study the development of cancer. However, there is no standard method for isolating EVs from cells or body fluids. In this study, researchers compared two different methods for isolating EVs: differential centrifugation (DC) and size exclusion chromatography (SEC). Both methods have their pros and cons, but the SEC method was found to produce more pure and homogeneous EVs, which could be useful for research on EVs in cancer and other diseases.
This paper presents a reverse-engineering approach to study the role of post-transcriptional regulation in pattern formation during early embryonic development of Drosophila melanogaster. The authors use mathematical models, structural and practical parameter identifiability analysis, and experimental data to study the dynamics of three trunk gap genes: Krüppel (Kr), knirps (kni), and giant (gt). They find that post-transcriptional regulation is not required for the correct timing and positioning of gap protein domain boundaries. However, their models suggest that post-transcriptional regulation is needed for accurate control of gap protein levels, implying some temporal regulation of translational efficiency and/or protein stability. The authors' approach provides a rigorous and quantitative way to test the hypothesis that post-transcriptional regulation is not needed for pattern formation.
Rotavirus is a common cause of gastroenteritis in children and can even lead to death in babies in countries where medical care is limited. It mainly affects babies under 6 years old, but adults do not get sick from it. In mice, babies are also more likely to get sick from rotavirus than adults. This is because the virus causes a lot of damage to the lining of the small intestine in baby mice. As mice get older, their resistance to rotavirus infection increases and they become less likely to get sick. This resistance is not due to an immune response, but rather to changes in the lining of the small intestine. In humans, babies are also more likely to get sick from rotavirus than adults, and there are similar changes in the lining of the small intestine. Scientists have found that the reason why baby mice are more likely to get sick from rotavirus is that their intestinal cells express more of a type of protein called TLR3. This protein helps to recognize viral particles and trigger an immune response. The scientists also found that this TLR3 protein is expressed less in adults. They also found that the TLR3 protein is expressed less in babies than in adults in humans. This protein is important for protecting against rotavirus, and the increased expression of TLR3 in the intestinal cells of baby mice and humans may be a factor contributing to their susceptibility to rotavirus infection.
The genetic architecture of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) includes both common and rare variants. While analysis of rare variants has identified certain genes as playing a role in liability for ASD, it has not produced many findings. A new ambitious study, called the ARRA autism sequencing consortium (AASC), aims to identify novel ASD genes by sequencing nearly 2000 case and control subjects. Because of the potential downstream implications regarding treatment, this study is very important. However, most published candidate gene studies have not reported a p-value small enough to attain exome-wide significance. For rare variants, association tests need to examine the cumulative effects of observed rare variants in the target set. Several statistical methods are now available to test for association with rare variants. However, meta-analysis is the most effective way to test for association using these data, as it combines p-values from different data sets using a weighted Z-score method. This report shows that mega-analysis is the more powerful procedure for gene-based tests such as SKAT. After quality control and controlling for ancestry, the AASC data reveals no clear-cut associations.
Mycetoma is a disease caused by a fungus called Madurella mycetomatis. This disease affects the lower limbs and causes multiple nodules and sinuses to develop, which discharge pus. The fungal grain found in these nodules contains a hard brown matrix that protects the fungus from the body's immune system. It is not known what is inside the grain, but it is thought to contain chitin. Chitinases are part of the immune system and are produced by cells when the body is exposed to chitin. Chitinases break down chitin, which is found in the fungal cell wall. In this study, the researchers are investigating whether having a certain polymorphism (a change in the DNA sequence) in two genes called chitotriosidase and acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) is associated with mycetoma. They think that people with these polymorphisms may have decreased chitinase activity, which could increase their susceptibility to infections, including mycetoma. The researchers are testing their hypothesis by comparing the frequency of these polymorphisms in mycetoma patients and healthy controls.
Herpesviruses have a special way of surviving in their hosts by using a strategy called latency and reactivation. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is the best known herpesvirus and is used as an example of viral latency. During a productive infection, HSV-1 rapidly spreads to the sensory neurons, where it initiates a lytic phase of infection that involves the expression of roughly 80 viral functions in a specific order. However, this phase of infection is eventually stopped by the development of an adaptive immune response. The resulting state of viral DNA persistence in the absence of infectious virus is considered latency. In mouse models of HSV-1, latency is particularly profound and reactivation is difficult to induce. It was previously thought that viral transcription during latency was restricted to a family of RNA transcripts called LATs, but recent studies have shown that lytic gene transcription also occurs during latency. The retention of activated, virus-specific CD8+ T cells within the sensory ganglia of latently infected individuals provides evidence for the translation of lytic proteins. However, direct evidence for the translation of lytic proteins during latency has been difficult to find. To test whether certain promoters drive protein production during HSV latency, we constructed a set of HSV-1 viruses that express Cre under promoters that drive well-characterized CD8+ T cell targets or proteins with an immune evasion function. We found that unlike promoters tested previously, those driving gB and ICP6 can produce protein during HSV latency.
This study compares the spread and accumulation of misfolded prion protein in the brain of mice infected with three different strains of mouse-adapted scrapie. The study uses a technique called microinjection to inject the prion protein into the striatum of the mice. The researchers then follow the spread of the prion protein through the brain using a technique called dual staining, where the prion protein is stained along with a marker for a specific type of brain cell. The researchers found that the strains of prion protein had different patterns of association with astroglia and neurons. To understand the relationship between the spread of the prion protein and the brain's response to the infection, the researchers also analyzed the expression of genes associated with neuroinflammation in the thalamus of the mice. The researchers found that despite the different patterns of association of the prion protein with different types of brain cells, the three strains had similar patterns of gene expression associated with neuroinflammation. The researchers also compared the patterns of gene expression associated with neuroinflammation to the patterns seen in mice infected with two viruses that caused similar levels of gliosis. The researchers found that the patterns of gene expression associated with neuroinflammation were different in the two groups.
The genetic information found in all cells of a multicellular organism is different among different tissues and cell types due to variation in gene expression. Recent studies have revealed that the physical organization of chromosomes inside the cell nucleus plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression. Chromosomes are organized hierarchically during interphase, the longest phase of the cell cycle where genes are expressed and DNA is replicated. This organization involves chromosomes occupying their own territory, with genes sharing the same transcriptional state colocalizing in the center, while inactive regions are at the periphery. Chromosomes are partitioned into consecutive 3D interaction compartments, called topologically-associated domains (TADs), which share the same epigenomic state and have enriched contact probabilities with other loci within the domain. The behavior of long polymer chains, such as chromosomes, during an extended time period is crucial for understanding chromosome folding. However, very few approaches account adequately for the topological constraints generated by polymer entanglement. We developed a generic coarse-graining strategy that allows to drastically reduce the computation time while maintaining the polymer in the same topological regime. This strategy involves a step-by-step process of data analysis and coarse-graining that systematically reduces the number of variables while preserving the essential features of the model. We applied this strategy to investigate the role of epigenomic-driven interactions in the folding and dynamics of the drosophila genome.
This study investigates the factors that influence the specificity of eQTLs, or SNPs associated with gene expression, in different cell types. The authors analyzed data from 11 studies involving seven different cell types to identify cis-linked SNPs associated with each gene expression trait in each study. They also analyzed the overlap between eQTL SNPs and cell type-specific regulatory DNA elements to identify potential functional determinants of cell type specificity. Additionally, the authors built predictive models that can be used to predict the cell type specificity of eQTLs in the absence of additional gene expression data and to predict the function of GWAS SNPs with phenotypes relevant to cell types lacking eQTL data. The study aimed to improve the utility of eQTLs for complex trait interpretation and facilitate more substantial mechanistic analyses of individual SNPs by enabling the integration of disease genetics and regulatory SNPs with the thousands of genomic data sets that have been produced.
Scientists have been working on a vaccine to protect against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) for over 30 years, but a vaccine that is effective against HIV infection has not yet been created. One of the challenges is figuring out the best way to design the vaccine and how to produce it in a way that will work well for large-scale manufacturing. A recent study found that a type of monoclonal antibody that protects against HIV infection requires certain types of glycans on the virus particles to bind to them. This is a problem for vaccines that use the protein gp120 from the virus, because gp120 does not have these glycans. To solve this problem, scientists have been working on a way to create a new type of cell that will produce gp120 with the right type of glycans. They have done this by using a new type of gene editing technique called CRISPR/Cas9 to create a new type of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell that cannot produce the glycans that gp120 needs to bind to these monoclonal antibodies. This new type of CHO cell should be useful for creating a vaccine that will protect against HIV infection and other diseases where certain types of glycans are important for the vaccine to be effective.
Scientists have found that parasites called nematodes cause diseases in the tropics, like lymphatic filariasis. The diseases cause long-term disability and distress to people. These diseases are transmitted by mosquitoes. There is currently no cure for them and the drugs used to treat them have side effects. Researchers have found a new target for a drug that would cure this disease. They have found that a protein called T6PP is necessary for the survival of the nematodes. They have found that a drug that inhibits this protein could be a potential cure for the disease. To find out more about the protein, the researchers have studied its structure using a technique called X-ray crystallography. They have found that the protein has a cap domain that helps it to work. They have also found that the drug inhibiting the protein can only reach the active site of the protein when the cap domain moves out of the way. This study could lead to the development of a drug to cure the disease.
A new tool called REANIMATE is introduced that combines high-resolution imaging data from large, intact, optically-cleared tissue samples with mathematical modelling and in vivo imaging to make predictions regarding fluid and mass transport in tumors. This tool can be used to test new hypotheses and designs in a more efficient and effective manner than traditional experimental methods. In this study, the authors present a computational model that efficiently simulates both intra- and extravascular fluid transport across large, discrete microvascular networks. The model is based on the optimisation scheme of Fry et al. and is parametrised and validated against in vivo ASL-MRI data. The authors also provide a comprehensive description of the model's application to whole tumor vascular networks and apply the model to two different tumor types. Sensitivity analysis is performed on the model parameters associated with transvascular fluid delivery, such as vascular hydraulic conductance and interstitial hydraulic conductivity, to explore the impact on tumor IFP and IFV profiles. Finally, the authors use the computational framework to explore the biomechanics underlying vascular normalization, a method that aims to restore tumor vascular structure and function to physiological levels. The authors believe that this study will contribute to a better understanding of the fluid dynamics in tumors and provide insights into new ways to improve the delivery of anti-cancer drugs.
The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is a virus that spreads efficiently between cells. There are two ways HIV spreads: through cell-free viruses and by cell-cell contact. HIV infection can also occur through cell-cell contact, which is more efficient and faster than cell-free infection. The virus can also be transmitted through nanotubes and filopodia. It is unclear whether cell-free or cell-cell infection is more important for the spread of HIV in humans. This gap in knowledge poses a problem for the development of vaccines and entry inhibitors, as it is unclear whether both modes of infection need to be targeted. Neutralizing antibodies are antibodies that recognize and block the entry of the virus into cells. However, it is not clear how well neutralizing antibodies can stop cell-cell transmission of HIV. Previous studies have shown conflicting results, but these differences may be due to variations in experimental setups and cell types used. Our study aimed to clarify the capacity of neutralizing antibodies to block cell-cell transmission of HIV. We used a variety of in vitro assays to study the transmission of HIV between cells, including single virus tracking, keeping cultures in motion, and careful time course analysis. Our study provides a necessary first step towards determining the in vivo relevance of the different modes of HIV transmission and the requirements for their inhibition by vaccine-induced antibody responses and entry inhibitors.
The study by Castelo-Branco and colleagues examined how attention affects the responses of neurons in the visual cortex. They found that attention can produce both contrast-gain and response-gain effects, as well as biased competition between neurons. Additionally, they found that attention can alter the size and shape of receptive fields, both in topological and fine feature space. The authors proposed a simple mechanistic model that explains how a top-down modulatory signal from higher areas of the visual hierarchy can produce all these effects. The model suggests that feedback connections between areas, interacting with short-range divisive mutual inhibition within each area, are sufficient to account for the observed effects of attention. The authors also made a novel prediction: attentional effects on response curves should turn from response gain to contrast gain as the focus of attention shifts away from the center of the studied cell's receptive field.
The Drosophila lymph gland is an organ that produces blood cells. It has three zones, one for multipotent prohemocytes (progenitor cells), one for differentiating hemocytes (cells that phagocytes or crystalize), and one for a signaling center. The signaling center controls the balance between prohemocytes and differentiating hemocytes. It also helps prohemocytes keep their ability to turn into lamellocytes, which are cells that encapsulate foreign bodies too large to be phagocytosed. This signaling center is controlled by a type of receptor protein called Dome, which signals when a cytokine called Upd is present. Another type of receptor called Latran acts as an antagonist of Dome, turning off the JAK/STAT signaling pathway in prohemocytes following parasitization. This allows lamellocytes to differentiate and encapsulate the parasite.
The study aims to investigate the impact of recombination on genome-wide interaction networks in begomoviruses. The authors use a genome-wide association approach and controlled evolution experiments to analyze the patterns of recombination in begomoviruses. They use permutation tests to determine how recombination can disrupt intra-genome interactions, identify host adaptive nucleotide polymorphisms, and indirectly visualize long-range intra-genome interaction networks. The study provides valuable insights into the mechanisms of recombination and its impact on genome-wide interaction networks in begomoviruses, which may have important implications for understanding the emergence of new pathogens.
Nucleosomes are small structures that wrap DNA around histone proteins, and they are important for controlling how our genes are expressed. In DNA, nucleosomes are not randomly placed, but they tend to form on certain parts of the DNA that are easier to wrap around the histones. Changes in the DNA sequence can affect where nucleosomes form, and this can change how genes are expressed. Previous studies have shown that nucleosome positioning can affect how mutations occur and how they are repaired. A recent experiment in yeast showed that mutations were less common in parts of the DNA that were wrapped around nucleosomes, suggesting that nucleosomes may protect DNA from damage. However, these studies only looked at the effects of nucleosomes on mutations in one species of yeast, and it is not clear if this is true for all yeasts or for other species like humans and worms. To address this, we compared how mutations occurred around nucleosomes in humans to mutations in a group of halophilic archaea called Haloferax. Like their orthologs in eukaryotes, Haloferax nucleosomes wrap around DNA in order to control how genes are expressed, but they also differ in many ways from eukaryotic nucleosomes, such as being smaller and not having long tails like eukaryotic histones. Despite these differences, we found that the way mutations occurred around nucleosomes in Haloferax was very similar to the way mutations occurred in humans, suggesting that the effect of nucleosomes on mutations is the same in these two very different organisms. We also found that these trends did not hold true for the Haloferax sister lineage, suggesting that nucleosomes may move around in response to mutations. This means that we need to be careful when trying to understand how mutations affect the relationship between genes and their expression. It also means that we need to consider the role of nucleosomes in understanding the effects of mutations on epigenetic changes.
Researchers have found that the function of proteins is related to their conformational dynamics, which means how they move and change their shape. They used computational tools to identify specific regions of proteins that are important for their dynamics and, therefore, for their function. These regions are called normal mode subspaces. Researchers studied the effects of mutations on these subspaces to understand how changes in the sequence of a protein can affect its dynamics and function. They found that some regions of proteins are more important for their dynamics and, therefore, for their function than others. These regions are associated with low-frequency normal mode subspaces, which are the most collective and functionally relevant modes. The researchers were able to identify the specific positions in these regions that are important for ligand binding and the dynamics of the protein. These positions are called key positions and can be used to design new proteins with desired functions.
Mtb is a bacteria that causes tuberculosis in humans. It has the ability to adapt to different environments in the body, and it uses fatty acids and lipids as a source of energy. However, Mtb also has the ability to use other sources of energy such as glucose and glycolytic compounds. A protein called FBA is important for both glycolysis and gluconeogenesis, which are the main processes for breaking down and producing glucose. Mtb needs FBA to grow and survive. A study was done to understand the importance of FBA in acute and chronic infections of mice. The study found that FBA was essential for growth in certain conditions, but it could be replaced by other sources of energy in other conditions. The study also found that FBA was important for growth during acute and persistent infections in mice.
This article describes a group of organisms called trypanosomatids, which cause various diseases such as Leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. These organisms lack efficient enzymes that can get rid of harmful chemicals called peroxides, so they rely on enzymes called peroxiredoxins (PRXs) to do this job. PRXs have a special cysteine that can react with peroxides to neutralize them. In trypanosomatids, these cysteines are also involved in protecting the organisms from being killed by the host's immune system. The article shows that one particular type of PRX called mTXNPx is especially important for the parasite's survival inside the host. It also shows that mTXNPx has another important role as a "chaperone", which means it helps to keep other proteins in their proper shape. Overall, this article highlights the importance of mTXNPx in the survival and pathogenicity of trypanosomatids.
Histoplasmosis is a fungal disease that is common in Latin America and in Mexico. It can be a serious illness if not diagnosed and treated quickly. The current method of diagnosing this illness is to grow fungus in a lab, but this takes a long time and requires special safety equipment. Because of these issues, some people think that histoplasmosis is not reported as often as it really is, and it is thought of as a neglected disease. In the United States, there is a quick and easy test that can diagnose the illness. However, the accuracy of this test has not been compared to the gold standard of growing fungus in a lab. Because of these reasons, we decided to study the accuracy of the quick test for diagnosing histoplasmosis in Mexico.
The article is describing a study that used a new method called metagenomic analysis to explore the viral communities in the stool of children with diarrhea. Metagenomic analysis uses mass sequencing to identify the viruses in a sample. In this study, the researchers collected stool samples from 12 children with diarrhea and analyzed them using a simplified method called "micro-mass sequencing." They found evidence of known and novel viruses, as well as viral co-infections. The researchers think that this new method will help them to better understand the causes of diarrhea and to develop new treatments.
The Dominican Republic had a big dengue fever outbreak in 2015 and 2016. Then, in late 2016, the first cases of Zika virus disease were detected. By the end of 2016, 5,235 people had been infected with Zika, 22 babies had been born with microcephaly, and 600 people had developed Guillain-Barre syndrome, a type of paralysis. A retrospective disease surveillance dataset was used to study the spread of Zika and dengue in the Dominican Republic, as well as the associated cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome. Additionally, the study compared the age and sex-adjusted distributions of both Zika and dengue outbreaks and calculated the reproductive number of each outbreak. This information may help to better understand the outbreaks and develop more effective control strategies.
The paper describes the roles of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation, a process in which ADP-ribose units are transferred from NAD+ molecules onto target proteins, in plants under stress. PARPs are enzymes that mediate poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation and have been implicated in DNA repair and programmed cell death. PARGs are enzymes that reverse poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation by cleaving covalently attached poly(ADP-ribose). The paper found that Arabidopsis has two PARPs, PARP1 and PARP2, that have different functions in plants under stress. PARP2 is preferentially induced by dehydration and cadmium, whereas PARP1 is robustly induced by ionizing radiation. The paper also found that Arabidopsis has two PARGs, PARG1 and PARG2, that also have different functions in plants under stress. PARG1 was found to play a role in pathogen defense, whereas PARG2 was found to play a role in circadian oscillation. The paper presents evidence that PARG1 rather than PARG2 is the primary enzyme that counteracts poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation in Arabidopsis. The paper also found that PARP1 and PARP2 interact with both PARG1 and PARG2, and that PARP2 rather than PARP1 plays the major role in plant DNA damage and immune responses.
The article describes a study that looks at how glutamatergic synapses are formed in a type of neuron called mechanosensory neurons. The authors found that a protein called RPM-1 helps to regulate this process. They also identified several other proteins that work with RPM-1 to help form these synapses. The authors explain that these proteins are part of a signaling pathway that involves a specific type of MAPK called JNK. They also explain how the RPM-1 protein affects this signaling pathway by inhibiting an upstream kinase. The authors suggest that this signaling pathway may be involved in short-term learning, as they found that the RPM-1 protein affects the ability of these neurons to learn. Overall, the article provides important information about how synapses are formed in the nervous system and how this process may be affected by certain proteins.
Animals, including nematodes like worms, have genetic information to produce either males or females and must choose which sex to become. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, this choice is made by a signal transduction pathway that controls the activity of a master transcription factor TRA-1. The pathway decides which genes will be expressed to become a male or a hermaphrodite. TRA-1 is controlled by a protein called TRR-1 that works with TRA-1 to promote the expression of genes needed for hermaphrodites, like the gene fog-3. TRR-1 also interacts with other proteins that regulate TRA-1 by controlling the levels of a cleaved TRA-1 repressor. These two functions have been conserved throughout the genus Caenorhabditis, but their importance has changed dramatically during recent evolution. This explains the differences between the functions of some genes in Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae.
The article presents a new way of measuring the complexity of systems with many interconnected elements. The complexity of these systems can be understood as the balance between differentiation (where parts of the system are different from each other) and integration (where the system as a whole behaves coherently). The article introduces a new measure of integrated information that captures this balance. This measure is called "integrated information" and can be used to understand how systems generate information. The article provides a new way of calculating integrated information that can be applied to real-world data, and it shows that this measure is equivalent to another measure called "auto-regressive integrated information". These measures provide a new way of understanding the relationship between information generation and complex systems.
Scientists are trying to understand why a disease called Rhodesian human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), caused by the Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense parasite, is spreading in Uganda. Previously, it was thought that two forms of HAT only occurred in different parts of the country, but now there are concerns that the two forms are spreading closer to each other. Scientists think that the spread of Rhodesian HAT is due to the movement of untreated, infected livestock from other areas. To understand this spread better, scientists are using a new way to analyze data that takes into account the spatial relationship between the disease cases and environmental and climatic variables. They found that environmental and climatic variables did play a role in the spread of Rhodesian HAT, but that more work needs to be done to fully understand why the disease is spreading.
Ecologists have long tried to understand how many species can coexist in an ecosystem without causing instability. A new study shows that the number of species required to maintain stability varies depending on the type of interactions between them. The study also shows that weak interactions are more likely to lead to stable ecosystems. Furthermore, the study suggests that the structure of ecological systems, such as their food web, plays a minor role in determining stability. The study used computer simulations to analyze the stability of different types of ecosystems and found that weak interactions increase stability in mutualistic and competitive ecosystems. However, weak interactions decrease stability in predator-prey ecosystems. The study suggests that the optimal level of interaction strength for maintaining stability varies depending on the type of ecosystem.
Q Fever, caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii, affects both humans and animals. Humans can be infected through the respiratory route or by consuming contaminated dairy products. Cattle can be infected through inhaling contaminated air or coming into contact with infected ticks. Q Fever causes a variety of health issues in humans, including acute Q Fever, chronic Q Fever, and post-infection fatigue syndrome. In addition to its health effects, Q Fever can also have economic impacts on livestock farmers due to decreased productivity and increased veterinary costs. In Africa, Q Fever is prevalent in both humans and animals, with seroprevalence rates ranging from 7% to 33% in humans and from 4% to 55% in cattle. However, there are large variations in seroprevalence within small distances. Risk factors for human exposure to Q Fever include male gender, illiteracy, younger age group, and camel breeding. Risk factors for cattle include older age, female gender, presence of buffalo near grazing areas, and ethnicity of livestock owner.
Schistosomiasis is a serious health problem around the world, affecting about 200 million people and putting 700 million more at risk. Researchers have identified the genes involved in this parasite's development and reproduction, which may help develop new treatments. A technique called transgenesis can be used to introduce new genes into parasites, and researchers are looking for ways to use this technique to target the reproductive cells in schistosomes. A protein called Vasa is commonly used as a marker for germ cells (reproductive cells) in many organisms, and researchers have found Vasa-like genes in schistosomes. They used a technique called in situ hybridization to determine where these genes are expressed in the parasite. They found that the genes are expressed in the ovary and developing eggs. This suggests that using a Vasa-like gene as a marker to identify transgenic eggs could help researchers monitor the integration of new genes into the germ cells of schistosomes.
Heart valves are critical for pumping blood in the right direction during the heartbeat. Valve disease can lead to problems like calcification or stenosis and eventually result in heart failure. VGLL4 is a protein that helps control the growth and development of heart valves. In this study, the authors identified the role of VGLL4 in heart valve development and maintenance. They discovered that VGLL4 is expressed in the valve region and that only endothelial deletion of VGLL4 led to valve malformation. The authors also found that VGLL4 works by antagonizing YAP activity.
The study looks at the idea of "soft sweeps" in genetics. This is a model of how beneficial mutations can become fixed in a population over time. The authors argue that the evidence for soft sweeps in the genomes of organisms such as humans and Drosophila melanogaster is limited and unclear, as these organisms do not show signs of frequent occurrence of multiple high-frequency haplotypes. They propose that this idea of soft sweeps is not a good explanation for the patterns of genetic variation seen in these organisms.
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are known to be the primary carriers of dengue fever, causing 50-100 million infections among humans per year. These mosquitoes are attracted to human blood to lay eggs and can feed on multiple hosts. They go through a natural period of host-seeking inhibition for three days after a blood meal, during which they develop eggs and switch their attraction from humans to egg-laying sites. This natural period of inhibition can be regulated by two mechanisms: (1) abdominal distension that is communicated through the nerve cord and (2) a humoral substance called Head Peptide-I discovered in the mosquito's hemolymph. Researchers have recently identified a candidate receptor for Head Peptide-I, NPYLR1, but removing this receptor's activity did not affect feeding or host-seeking behavior in mutant mosquitoes. Therefore, researchers suspect that other signaling mechanisms must exist to regulate host-seeking behavior after removing the activity of NPYLR1.
Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by flat worms and is spread by freshwater snails. It is a major public health problem in Nigeria, with over 240 million people needing treatment globally. The highest prevalence of infection is among children aged 5 to 10 years, and males are more likely to be infected than females. The majority of cases are caused by a species of flat worm called Schistosoma haematobium, which can cause bladder cancer. To control schistosomiasis, Nigeria has identified 150 high-risk areas, and GIS/RS is being used to develop a predictive model for the disease. This will help to identify areas where transmission is likely to occur, and to develop strategies for prevention and control.
In this study, the authors investigated the effects of pneumococcal meningitis on the neocortex of the brain and the role of the major pneumococcal toxin, PLY, in causing these effects. They used a mutant form of PLY that is unable to form pores, called the delta6 mutant, to study the effects of pore formation by PLY. They found that PLY is critical for the clinical course of experimental pneumococcal meningitis. They also found that PLY persists in the cerebrospinal fluid, which correlates with a poorer prognosis in human patients. Additionally, the authors studied the neocortex, a highly specialized brain structure, and found that it is affected by pneumococcal meningitis. They found that the major component of the neocortex is pyramidal neurons, whose somata are predominantly in layers III, V, and VI, and send projections throughout the cortex and receive projections from other neurons from other brain areas. They also found that astrocytes wrap around the synaptic cleft and parts of the pre- and/or post-synapse, allowing them to rapidly remove released neurotransmitters. The authors conclude that the findings suggest that PLY-dependent changes in neocortical synapses could be responsible for the cognitive impairment seen in patients with pneumococcal meningitis.
Papillomaviruses (HPV) are a family of small, non-enveloped viruses that infect the skin and mucous membranes of humans and animals. There are over 100 different genotypes of HPV, some of which cause cancer. These viruses have a complex life cycle that is tightly linked to the differentiation of the host epithelial cells. HPV infects only dividing basal cells of the epithelium and establishes itself as a nuclear plasmid. As the host cells differentiate, the virus is maintained at a low copy number in the basal cells, and then it amplifies and encapsidates itself in terminally differentiated cells to produce progeny virions. The authors recently developed a method to produce infectious HPV virions in high yields, which allows them to study the early steps of the HPV infection process. They used this method to screen over 5,000 compounds to identify cell cycle inhibitors that block HPV infection. The authors found that progression through early stages of mitosis is critical for successful HPV infection. These findings provide new insights into how HPV infects cells and identify new potential targets for preventing and treating HPV infection.
Researchers have identified 24 potential microRNA (miRNA) candidates in a fungus called Penicillium marneffei that causes respiratory, skin, and systemic mycosis. miRNAs are small non-coding molecules that regulate gene expression in animals and plants. The researchers found that these miRNAs were more abundantly expressed in the mycelial phase of the fungus than in the yeast phase. They also identified two genes, dcl-1 and dcl-2, that are important for miRNA biogenesis, and a third gene, qde-2, that encodes an Argonaute-like protein. Using Northern blot analysis, the researchers confirmed the differential expression of two miRNAs, PM-milR-M1 and PM-milR-M2, in the mycelial phase, which was dependent on the dcl-2 gene but not the dcl-1 or qde-2 genes. These findings provide evidence for the existence of miRNAs in thermal dimorphic fungi and differential expression of miRNAs during different growth phases, which may provide new insights into the mechanism governing thermal dimorphism.
Zika fever is a new disease that can make people very sick. It is caused by a virus, called Zika virus, that is spread by a type of mosquito called Aedes. This virus can cause microcephaly, a condition where the baby's head is smaller than it should be, and other problems during pregnancy. The virus has spread to many parts of the world, including the Pacific and Central America. In the Pacific, there are several different types of mosquitoes that could spread the virus. We want to know if these mosquitoes are able to get infected with the virus and spread it to other people. To do this, we collected mosquitoes from different places in the Pacific and tested them in the lab to see if they can get infected and spread the virus. We also compared the results for two different types of mosquitoes that are found in the Pacific, called Aedes aegypti and Aedes polynesiensis.
Scientists have been studying a specific type of non-coding RNA called Xist for a long time. It is known to play a crucial role in turning off one of the two X chromosomes in females. However, little is known about its structure or how it works to achieve this function. The Xist RNA has a repeating region called the "A-repeat" that is important for its ability to turn off genes. Scientists have been able to probe this region in vitro (outside of the cell) and create a model of its structure. However, there is no way to do this probing in the cell itself, which is where it is most active. A new approach called Targeted Structure-Seq has been developed that combines in-cell DMS probing with a sequencing platform to probe the full-length Xist RNA in mouse cells. This has provided the first in-cell model of the Xist repeat A conformation and identified new structured elements in Xist, including a new evolutionary conserved structural element near the C repeats that is important for Xist function.
This study proposes a new statistical framework that can be used to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models. These models use genomic profiles of susceptibility variants to predict the risk of developing certain diseases. The framework is based on the liability threshold model, which assumes that people who develop a disease have a liability that is above a certain threshold. The framework shows that it is possible to estimate the performance of these models and create visual graphs that show how well they work. The authors hope that this framework will help evaluate the usefulness of genetic risk prediction models in the clinic.
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) is a disease that affects 70 million people in sub-Saharan African countries and can be fatal if left untreated. It is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei gambiense (g-HAT). This disease has two stages: an early stage where the parasites are present in the blood and lymphatic system, and a late stage where the parasites invade the central nervous system. To diagnose g-HAT, a screening test called CATT/T.b.gambiense is commonly used. However, the implementation of CATT for mass screening has been challenging due to operational issues. Recently, two rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) have been developed that can detect antibodies in the blood: RDT1 and RDT2. In this study, the diagnostic accuracy of RDT2 was evaluated in a multi-centric, prospective study in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), where it was compared to RDT1 and CATT. The results showed that RDT2 had non-inferior diagnostic accuracy compared to RDT1, and it was also more accurate than CATT.
Chagas disease is a major global health threat in Latin America and causes over 10,000 deaths annually. To control the disease, indoor residual spraying (IRS) has been used in many countries to eliminate triatomine vectors from homes. In Guatemala, this strategy has been successful in most endemic regions, but some areas have persistent infestation with T. dimidiata, a major vector species. In Comapa, a municipality in Southeast Guatemala, some communities have infestation rates of 15% despite multiple IRS interventions. We analyzed entomological indices and serological data from three cross-sectional studies spanning 15 years in Comapa. Our primary objective was to evaluate the effects of the Chagas control program on vector infestation and changes in human seroprevalence in school-aged children. We also evaluated seroprevalence in women of child-bearing age as a proxy for congenital transmission. We discussed the implications of these findings for sustainable integrated vector control, including insecticide-based methods within a program with limited resources. We also discussed strategies for preventing congenital disease transmission.
The enteric bacterium Citrobacter rodentium is a natural pathogen of mice and causes intestinal hyperplasia in suckling mice. This study aims to understand how this bacterium adapts to its host and to identify the factors that influence its virulence. To do this, the researchers compared the genomes of two different strains of C. rodentium: ICC168 and EX-33. They found that the genomes of these strains were different, with some genes being present in one strain but absent in the other. This indicates that these genes may have been acquired by HGT or lost through mutations. The researchers also found that the genomes of these strains had undergone genomic rearrangements, which could affect the ability of the bacterium to infect its host and cause disease. These findings are important because they help us understand how pathogens evolve and adapt to their hosts over time.
Scientists have found that stochastic events happen during transcription and translation, which leads to variations in RNA and protein expression levels. Protein and RNA expression levels have been shown to contain information about the molecules that produce them, but it is not clear how much information is contained. Researchers have developed a model of stochastic gene expression to understand how these variations occur. They use this model to predict how the protein count distribution will look like, which can then be tested experimentally. However, it is difficult to determine the exact parameters that make up this model. To solve this problem, researchers have developed a fitting algorithm that can compare the predicted protein count distribution with the experimental data and find the parameters that best fit. They have also developed an analytical solution to the first four moments of the protein count distribution. They have tested the algorithm and found that it returns ensembles of CDRC sets that are consistent with the protein count distribution. These ensembles are informative and can provide information about the molecular machinery that underlies gene expression.
Monkeypox virus (MPXV) is a type of virus that can infect many animals, including humans. When it infects humans, it causes a disease very similar to smallpox, with symptoms including a rash, fever, and lymphadenopathy. The virus is endemic to Central and West Africa, but it is increasing in numbers of human infections. There is currently no antiviral treatment or vaccine specifically for MPXV in humans, although vaccines against smallpox have shown some protection against MPXV. Scientists are exploring new and efficacious vaccines to protect against human MPX, including using genetic engineering techniques to create new viral vaccine vectors that are safe and effective. One such vector is BoHV-4, a gammaherpesvirus that causes a persistent infection in the monocyte/macrophage cell lineage of the natural host, the bovine, and has been isolated from other ruminant species such as goats and sheep. BoHV-4 has been shown to infect many different animal species, and scientists have successfully used it to express immune-dominant antigens from different pathogens to create recombinant BoHV-4s that can be used as vaccine vectors. One study used 129 STAT1 (-/-) mice to evaluate the capability of BoHV-4-based vectors expressing MPXV antigens to elicit a protective immune response against a lethal MPXV challenge. The study compared the capability of the BoHV-4-based vectors to the smallpox vaccine MVA. This work has established a starting point for BoHV-4-based vector applications toward MPX and other important human diseases.
This paper is about the process of mRNA decay in eukaryotes. In this process, the mRNA cap is first removed by the decapping enzyme Dcp2, which is then helped by several other proteins. These proteins are called decapping enhancers, and they are involved in the removal of the mRNA cap. However, some species of eukaryotes, including trypanosomes, have a unique decapping enzyme called ALPH1 instead of the usual decapping enzyme. The paper describes the properties of ALPH1 and its role in mRNA decay in trypanosomes.
The pancreas has two parts: one produces digestive enzymes for the digestive system and the other produces hormones for the body. One of these hormones is insulin, which controls blood sugar levels. Type 1 diabetes is a disease that results from the loss of insulin-producing cells. Current treatments for type 1 diabetes help people control their blood sugar levels, but it is difficult and there is a high risk of complications. Scientists are trying to understand how these cells are made and what genetic programs are involved. This knowledge may help in the development of new treatments for type 1 diabetes. During the development of the pancreas, several genes play important roles. The gene Pdx1 is involved in the early stages of development. The gene Ngn3 is involved in the development of endocrine cells, which make hormones. Other genes, such as Arx and Pax4, also have roles in the development of endocrine cells. The misuse of these genes in adult cells can change their properties and make them into cells that make different hormones. Scientists have generated a new mouse model that allows them to turn off the gene Arx in adult cells that produce glucagon, a hormone that regulates blood sugar levels. They found that when they turned off Arx, these cells turned into cells that looked like they made insulin, a hormone that controls blood sugar levels. They also found that when glucagon-producing cells were turned off, new cells were made that looked like insulin-producing cells. These new cells were able to produce insulin and make the mice healthier. They also found that when they turned off Pax4 in these mice, the cells continued to change and make even more insulin. These findings suggest that Arx is the main gene involved in changing glucagon-producing cells into cells that look like they make insulin. They also found that when they turned off Arx in adult cells, this caused the cells to turn into new cells that looked like insulin-producing cells. This suggests that these cells are able to change and regenerate. These findings may help scientists understand how to treat diabetes and how to make people live longer.
In order to prevent re-replication of DNA, eukaryotic cells use a complex control system to ensure that replication machinery is only assembled once per cell cycle. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, replication is tightly controlled by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), which target four different proteins that are involved in assembling the replication machinery at the origin of replication. When these proteins are no longer regulated, many origins can re-initiate, but with different efficiencies. A local control mechanism called a "re-initiation promoter" (RIP) has now been discovered that specifically promotes re-initiation at some origins without affecting their initiation activity. These RIPs are located in 60-base-pair segments and work independently of the chromosomal context and silencing effects. By analyzing the re-association of replication machinery with origins, it was found that RIPs work by antagonizing an inhibitory mechanism that operates after Mcm2-7 has been loaded at the origin. This discovery provides a new understanding of how diversity can be introduced in the regulation of eukaryotic replication origins.
Entamoeba histolytica causes a potentially deadly parasitic infection called invasive amebiasis (IA). The infection is most common in developing countries in Asia, Africa and Central and South America, but it also occurs in travelers and immigrants from these areas to developed countries. Recently, Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea reported a rise in cases of IA among men who have sex with men (MSM) due to oral-anal sexual contact. HIV-1 infection, which is increasing among MSM in these countries, has also caused growing concern about IA among HIV-1-infected MSM. The recommended treatment for IA is metronidazole or tinidazole, followed by a luminal agent to eliminate intestinal colonization. A previous study found no difference in the response to treatment between HIV-1-positive and -negative IA patients. However, it is not clear how effective luminal treatment is in preventing recurrence. In this study, the authors analyzed 170 HIV-1-infected Japanese patients with IA and genomic typing of E. histolytica in 14 of these patients, to delineate the clinical features of IA in HIV-1-infected individuals and the efficacy of treatment.
Sleeping sickness, or human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), is a deadly disease caused by certain subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei and transmitted by tsetse flies. There is no vaccine against this disease and treatment can take up to two weeks in the hospital. The World Health Organization (WHO) aims to eliminate HAT as a public health problem by 2020 and globally by 2030. The main way to control HAT is through mass screening of populations, followed by diagnosis and treatment of cases, and passive surveillance. However, some areas still have high numbers of cases despite these efforts. A new method called "tiny targets" has been developed and successfully applied to reduce the number of tsetse in these areas, which can help stop the spread of HAT. One example of a persistent HAT area is Mandoul in Southern Chad. Despite several years of mass screening and surveillance, the number of cases in 2014 still exceeded the threshold for elimination as a public health problem. In 2014, a tsetse control programme was implemented using insecticide-impregnated targets to kill the flies and traps to catch and retain them. The results of this programme will be discussed.
Strongyloidiasis is a disease caused by a type of worm (Strongyloides stercoralis) that lives in the soil. It can be found all over the world, especially in tropical areas and some parts of the sub-tropics. However, it has also been found in more temperate climates. It is estimated that 370 million people are infected with this worm, but this number is probably an underestimate because many studies focus on other types of worms. Many people who are infected with this worm do not have any symptoms, but some may have gastrointestinal, skin, or respiratory symptoms. This worm is unique because it can live in a person's body for decades without being reinfected from the outside. However, if a person's immune system is weakened, the worm can multiply and cause severe symptoms such as the Strongyloidiasis hyperinfection syndrome and the disseminated strongyloidiasis. Due to the increase in migration and international travel, imported strongyloidiasis is becoming more common in Spain and other non-endemic areas. Therefore, it is important to understand more about this disease in order to better treat it.
Vaccines are the best way to protect us from infectious diseases. However, there are often conflicts when deciding the optimal dose of a vaccine, so it is important to strike a balance between immunity, cost and side effects. This study developed a new mathematical modeling framework to help predict the best dose of a vaccine and the level of immune protection it provides. The modeling framework was tested with data from two infection experiments, influenza A virus and human parainfluenza virus, to determine the optimal dose for both pathogens. The results of this study are important in the development of vaccines, and can help guide the design of future vaccines.
Nitrogen deprivation causes cyanobacterial filaments, which are composed of vegetative cells and heterocysts, to differentiate. This differentiation involves the formation of a pattern of heterocysts separated by a specific number of vegetative cells. To form this pattern, cells must communicate with each other and coordinate their developmental decisions. Noise (unexpected fluctuations in gene expression) may affect this process, so researchers studied how noise affects gene expression in Anabaena filaments. They used genetic markers and analyzed the expression of genes related to heterocyst differentiation to understand how different factors, such as PatS and HetN (inhibitors of heterocyst differentiation) and HetR (a master regulator of differentiation), affect noise and spatial correlations (patterns of similarities in gene expression) in filaments. They found that these factors can play a role both before and after differentiation has started. They also found that the spatial correlations of gene expression extend to two or three cells and that an intercellular communication protein may play a role in setting these patterns.
JEV is a virus that causes encephalitis (swelling of the brain) in humans and reproductive problems in pigs. The virus has a single-stranded RNA genome that encodes a polyprotein, which is cut into seven nonstructural proteins and three structural proteins. The virus is transmitted by Culex mosquitoes and amplified in certain birds and pigs. There are five genotypes of JEV. Genotype III was the main cause of JE in Asia until recently, but a shift has occurred to Genotype I, which is more efficient in infecting mosquitoes and humans but may have a more restricted host range. We compared the replication efficiency of Genotype I and III in vitro and in vivo in an attempt to understand why Genotype I has replaced Genotype III.
Candida albicans is a fungus that can cause infections in humans, including superficial mucosal infections and life-threatening invasive infections. To study how this fungus causes infections, researchers have used genetics to identify important genes and pathways involved in C . albicans pathogenicity, host response, and antifungal drug susceptibility. However, there have been few studies on how these genes and pathways interact with each other. To address this, we used a genetic approach called complex haploinsufficiency (CHI) in Candida albicans. CHI involves generating strains with heterozygous deletion mutations at two separate loci and comparing their phenotypes to each single mutant. Our analysis found that the biofilm transcription factor (TF) network in Candida albicans is not genetically robust but is quite fragile. We also found that some double heterozygous strains had defects in biofilm density that were comparable or more severe than homozygous deletions. These observations suggest that the biofilm TF network is not very reliable, but it is highly efficient at transmitting information. Finally, we found that some double heterozygous mutants showed compensatory responses, where one TF compensated for the loss of another TF. Overall, our study has provided new insights into the structure and function of the biofilm TF network in Candida albicans.
This article discusses a study on the enzyme asparagine synthetase (AS) in the parasite Leishmania infantum. The study aimed to understand the role of AS in the growth and infectivity of Leishmania infantum and to investigate the potential of AS as a target for drug development.
Toxocariasis is a type of worm infection that can be contracted by humans and animals. It is caused by larvae of Toxocara canis and Toxocara cati, which are roundworms found in dogs and cats, respectively. These larvae can migrate to different parts of the body, including the liver, lungs, and central nervous system. The infection can be asymptomatic or can cause a range of symptoms, from mild to severe. In rare cases, it can cause damage to the central nervous system, resulting in neurological issues such as epilepsy. Some studies have suggested that there may be a link between toxocariasis and epilepsy, but the association is still debated. A previous systematic review and meta-analysis found a positive association between toxocariasis and epilepsy, but new studies have been conducted since then that may provide new insights on this association.
This paper is about how our cells respond to damage caused by radiation. When our cells get hit by radiation, something called the DNA damage response (DDR) is triggered. This response helps to either repair the damage or decide whether the cells should die. There are proteins that play important roles in this response, and one of them is called ATM. ATM helps to repair the damage by phosphorylating other proteins. There are different ways that ATM is regulated, including through a process called methylation, which can make it less active. Another way that ATM is regulated is through a process called miRNA, which helps to control how much of a protein is made. ATM also helps to regulate how much of some miRNAs are made. A protein called BRCA1 also helps to regulate how much of some miRNAs are made. The paper describes how researchers have found that there is a link between miRNA and the DDR. They have also found that there are certain proteins that are affected by both ATM and miRNA, and that these proteins can help to repair the damage caused by radiation.
The study investigates how mentalizing, or attributing mental states to others, influences learning during social interactions. The study shows that mentalizing involves recursive thinking, and that simple forms of action understanding can be explained using Bayesian models of intention recognition. The authors propose a "social Bayesian brain" hypothesis that suggests that mentalizing may involve recursive belief updates, and that more sophisticated mentalizing agents can outsmart less sophisticated learners. The study tested this hypothesis by having participants believe they were playing a competitive game or performing a gambling task, but in reality, both tasks were identical and participants were competing against artificial agents with different levels of mentalizing sophistication. The authors predicted that the social framing of the task would induce participants to mentalize, and that domain-general learning heuristics in the non-social framing would be vulnerable to the artificial agents. The authors found that participants performed better in the social framing than in the non-social framing, suggesting that mentalizing is beneficial for learning during social interactions.
Biological networks are made up of interactions or relationships between different molecules, such as DNA, RNA, and proteins. They play a vital role in biological processes and diseases. Graphical Model (GM) is a way to present complex networks based on conditional dependence. However, GM is not practical for biological networks because there are too many variables. Researchers have been working on analyzing biological networks using GM in high-dimensional settings with sparseness assumptions. Regularization techniques are typically used in these methods. Liu proposed a procedure to control the false discovery rate in GM. Ren et al. proposed a new method to estimate large GGM with minimal sparseness condition. Janková and van de Geer applied a bias correction approach to make inference of each edge in the graph. Gu et al. extended this idea to the high-dimensional inference of Gaussian copula graphical model. However, all these methods have an implementation issue and require extra model assumptions. In this study, we proposed an efficient algorithm named FastGGM for inference of GGM. We used simulated and real data sets to demonstrate that FastGGM is able to speed up existing implementations and make it feasible to infer biological networks at a whole-genome scale.
This article discusses a type of brain cells called medium spiny neurons (MSNs) found in the striatum. The striatum receives input from the cerebral cortex and is connected to a subcortical structure called the Basal Ganglia. MSNs are the only cells in the striatum that project outside the brain structure. Because they are connected to each other through a local network of collaterals, MSNs are thought to act selectively, transmitting the most active inputs to downstream targets in the Basal Ganglia while suppressing others. However, studies have shown that the local network of connections between MSNs is too sparse and weak to perform global selection. The article discusses how MSNs display large variations in firing rate over long periods of time and how phasic activity peaks are not simply at stimulus onset and offset but are distributed throughout the delay period after task events.
Researchers are trying to understand how cells control their size and shape. They know that some cells have a special way of controlling this, called endocytosis. Endocytosis happens when cells take in things from outside their bodies and bring them into their cells. But the researchers also know that cells have another way of controlling their size and shape, called exocytosis, which happens when cells send things out of their bodies. Both of these ways of moving things happen in different parts of the cell, so the researchers are trying to understand if there is a way for them to be connected in some way. They know that this is true for some special cells, but they want to know if it is true for all kinds of cells. They also know that there is a special protein called Sec4p that helps cells with exocytosis. They found that Sec4p also helps with endocytosis, but not in the way they expected. Instead, they found that Sec4p helps with the formation of a special place in the cell where things are brought in, and also helps with the movement of things that are being sent out. This means that Sec4p helps connect exocytosis and endocytosis, even though they happen in different parts of the cell. The researchers think this is a really important discovery that could help us understand how cells control their size and shape.
The current research paper aims to challenge the prevailing explanation of why humans exhibit a wide range of responses to acetaminophen-induced liver injury (AILI), which is a common model for drug-induced liver injury in humans. The authors have developed a new software-based model called NZ-Mechanism, which is designed to be biomimetic in terms of anatomical, hepatic zonation, and cell biology features. By running virtual experiments with NZ-Mechanism, the authors have found that zonation of the reactive metabolite NAPQI alone is not sufficient to explain early perivenous necrosis. However, when additional zonation features are combined, the authors have found a new explanatory mechanism that is sufficient to explain the diversity of responses to AILI in humans.
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, which affects about 8-10 million people in Latin America. Congenital transmission, meaning the mother passes the parasite on to her child during pregnancy, is increasing as a health problem, with an estimated 15,000 new infected babies each year. To improve early diagnosis of infected newborns, researchers studied parasite levels in the blood of children at 1 and 6 months old and compared them to levels in their mothers. They also genotyped the parasites to better understand the disease.
The Squires group found that strains of E. coli with fewer than six copies of the rRNA operon had lower growth rates than the wild type strain. A CGGR model was developed to explain this finding. The model takes into account a number of physiological factors that affect growth rate, including RNA polymerase-promoter interaction, ribosome-ribosome binding site interaction, mRNA degradation, DNA replication initiation, and macromolecular crowding. The model also includes gene classes that represent all transcription and translation within the cell. The model was able to reproduce the experimental data and suggests that the macromolecular volume fraction in the cell changes for genetically perturbed cells, with increasing chromosomal rRNA operon copy number leading to decreased growth rate due to overcrowding. The model also predicts that increasing the rRNA operon copy number beyond seven will not result in a significant increase in growth rate, suggesting that there may be an optimal rRNA operon copy number for a cell in a constant rich environment. The model also predicts that macromolecule compaction and feedback regulation may play a role in regulating rRNA operon copy number.
Abiotic stresses, such as drought and salinity, affect plant growth and development. To protect themselves from these stresses, plants have developed specific defense mechanisms. One of the most important defense mechanisms is the ABA signaling pathway, which is activated by stresses such as drought and salinity. The ABA signaling pathway involves a group of proteins that interact with each other to regulate the expression of genes that help plants cope with stresses. One of these proteins is HY5, which is involved in light signaling, ABA signaling, and abiotic stress responses. HY5 is also involved in seed germination and seedling growth. Recently, a new protein called RSM1 has been discovered that is involved in the regulation of the floral transition and seedling photomorphogenesis. In this paper, the authors studied the role of RSM1 in seed germination and seedling growth. They found that RSM1 plays a role in these processes and interacts with HY5 to regulate them. The authors also looked at the role of RSM1 in the ABA signaling pathway, and they found that RSM1 interacts with HY5 to regulate the expression of genes involved in the ABA signaling pathway.
Complex I is a large, membrane-bound protein complex that is found in most cells and plays a vital role in generating energy within cells. It is composed of many subunits and contains iron-sulfur clusters and flavin molecules as redox prosthetic groups. The complex links the electron transfer from NADH to ubiquinone to the pumping of protons from the matrix into the intermembrane space. Recent structural analysis has revealed that the redox reactions take place in the hydrophilic arm of the L-shaped molecule, which is far from the membrane domain. However, the molecular mechanism and the number, identity, and location of the proton pumping sites remain unclear. In this study, researchers discovered that a subcomplex lacking specifically the distal domain (PD) of the membrane arm is still capable of pumping protons at half the stoichiometry of holo-complex I.
In this paper, researchers investigated the impact of fever on the binding affinity of two antibody-antigen immune complexes from two common fever-inducing infectious diseases: dengue virus and Plasmodium vivax. They discovered that the binding affinity of these antibodies to their corresponding antigens increased at a temperature of 40°C, and then decreased at 42°C. This finding may provide insight into the physiological mechanisms that are activated during fever-inducing infections.
The article describes how the movement of cells is controlled by the flow of a special fluid made up of actin filaments and myosin motors. This fluid is called the cortical flow and it is a fundamental and ubiquitous form of cellular deformation that underlies cell polarization, cell division, cell crawling, and multicellular tissue morphogenesis. The authors describe a new computational model that combines a coarse-grained description of cortical flow with the microscopic origins of force generation and dissipation within cross-linked actomyosin networks. They use this model to study the dynamics of cortical flow and how it depends on motor activity and network remodeling. The model is based on the idea that the fluid-like stress relaxation observed in living cells is caused by a combination of cross-link unbinding and actin filament turnover. The authors also study the effects of cross-link unbinding and actin filament turnover on cortical flow and how they interact with each other. The authors find that actin turnover is necessary for rapid cortical deformation and flow and that cross-link unbinding plays a significant role in this process. They also find that motor activity and network remodeling play essential roles in controlling cortical flow. The authors' findings suggest that the fluid-like stress relaxation observed in living cells is caused by a combination of cross-link unbinding and actin filament turnover, and that motor activity and network remodeling play essential roles in controlling cortical flow.
Plant growth is dependent on sugars for energy and building blocks. Sugar-sensing and signaling systems regulate growth, development and responses to the environment in plants. Inhibition of early seedling growth occurs when high concentrations of sugars are added to the medium. Sugar-sensing mutants are commonly isolated using this phenomenon. ABI4 is a central regulator in sugar-responsive gene expression in plants. ANAC060 is a new sugar-sensing QTL that encodes a truncated transcription factor. The truncated ANAC060 protein lacks the C-terminal membrane anchor domain and is constitutively located in the nucleus. This mutation attenuates sugar-induced ABA accumulation and renders seedlings insensitive to sugar.
In many organisms, including bacteria and humans, a molecule called c-di-GMP is used to rapidly respond to environmental signals and control various cellular functions. The c-di-GMP molecule is controlled by two types of proteins, diguanylate cyclases (DGCs) and phosphodiesterases (PDEs), which increase and decrease its levels respectively. The c-di-GMP molecule can freely move throughout the cell, so it is important that DGCs target specific parts of the cell to only affect certain functions. In this paper, the authors describe how a DGC called HsbD targets specific parts of the cell to control twitching, swarming, chemotaxis, and biofilm formation. They found that HsbD works by interacting with other proteins that control these behaviors, specifically those in the HptB pathway and the Gac/Rsm pathway. This interaction allows HsbD to only affect the specific behaviors it is supposed to control, avoiding undesired effects on other parts of the cell. The authors suggest that this specificity of action is important for bacteria to be able to adapt to different environments and perform multiple tasks at the same time.
When we point to targets, we often need to make adjustments based on how far away the target is from our body. Sometimes these adjustments can be difficult to learn. For example, when we wear magnifying glasses, we need to make different adjustments depending on where we are looking. Researchers have found that we can learn to associate different visual locations with different hand movements. This can help us to hit targets more accurately, even when we are wearing magnifying glasses. However, there is still much that we do not understand about how we learn these associations. Researchers have also found that we can learn to associate different contextual cues with different visuomotor mappings. For example, we can learn that we need to make different hand movements for different colored targets. However, we do not know how learning these associations affects how we generalize to new situations. Some researchers have found that we can generalize better when we train with a small number of different contextual cues. Other researchers have found that we can generalize better when we train with a larger number of different contextual cues. However, none of these studies have looked at how generalization depends on the specific contextual cues that we use. In the current study, we looked at how generalization depends on a continuous contextual cue. We asked participants to point to different shapes that were presented on a screen. The shapes were different shades of grey, and they gradually transitioned from a round shape to a spiky shape. We asked participants to make different hand movements depending on the shape that they were pointing at. We then tested their generalization abilities by asking them to point at a new shape that was not part of the training set. We found that participants were able to generalize well, even when they had only seen a small subset of the shapes. However, we also found that their generalization abilities depended on how many different shapes they had seen during training. We found that participants generalized best when they had seen a small number of different shapes during training. However, if we simulated how people learned the associations between shapes and hand movements, we found that this model also predicted that people would generalize best when they had seen a small number of different shapes during training. Our results suggest that we may be able to generalize better when we learn associations between contextual cues and visuomotor mappings in a more sparse way. This could be useful for many different types of tasks, including robotics and virtual reality.
The cerebellum helps us move smoothly and in a coordinated way by processing information from two main input channels: mossy fibers (MF) and climbing fibers (CF). MFs carry information from many parts of the brain and provide contextual information about sensory input, ongoing motor activity, and proprioception. CFs carry information about sensory events, such as a touch sensation on a specific part of the skin. CFs originate from the inferior olivary nucleus (IO), which plays a vital role in cerebellar functioning. When a CF fires, it generates a complex spike, which interrupts the Purkinje cell's (PC) rapid spiking behavior for about 15 ms. The IO has a low firing rate, which may limit its ability to transfer information effectively to the cerebellum. Therefore, a more in-depth investigation of the IO's electrophysiological properties is necessary. Olivary neurons exhibit a sub-threshold oscillation (STO) with a frequency that ranges from 2 to 10 Hz, and spikes occur only within a certain phase range. Olivary spikes have a characteristic shape that starts with a fast sodium spike, followed by an after-depolarization (ADP) due to dendritic P/Q calcium channels and a long after-hyperpolarization (AHP). Olivary cells can transmit a burst of spikes along the axon for each somatic action potential, which corresponds with small spikelets on top of the ADP of the somatic spike. The shape of the olivary somatic AP may vary depending on various factors, such as input patterns. CF burst size may be related to the phase of the IO cell's STO at the time the cell fired. In this study, we used computational modeling to investigate the factors that primarily determine the CF burst size and the information it potentially carries.
Iron is an essential element for many processes, including oxygen transport, DNA synthesis, and respiration. However, too much iron can also be harmful because it can lead to toxic free radicals. Maintaining a balance of iron is critical for cell survival. Recent research has helped us understand how cells regulate iron metabolism. The liver plays a key role in this process. A hormone called hepcidin controls iron metabolism in the liver. Hepcidin is made in the liver and released into the bloodstream. It then binds to a protein called ferroportin, which is responsible for exporting iron from cells. When hepcidin binds to ferroportin, it causes ferroportin to be broken down, which reduces the amount of iron that is exported from the liver and the intestines. Inside cells, the amount of iron is controlled by a group of proteins called iron response proteins (IRPs). IRPs help control the production of proteins that are involved in iron metabolism. These proteins include ferritin, which stores iron inside cells, and transferrin receptors, which help bring iron into cells. Ferritin is a hollow protein that stores iron in a less reactive form. Transferrin is a protein that helps carry iron into cells. The transferrin receptors help transferrin bring iron into cells.
The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is the primary way that material moves in and out of the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. It is made up of many proteins, or nucleoporins, that form a large structure. This structure is important because it controls what can enter and exit the nucleus. Even though scientists have studied the NPC for a long time, the way that it works is still not well understood. To better understand how the NPC works, scientists have created a computer model of it. This model takes into account the size and shape of the NPC and the way that it interacts with other parts of the cell. By studying this model, scientists can learn more about how the NPC works and how it might be affected by different conditions.
Scientists are looking for a way to test vaccines and treatments for diseases that affect humans in a way that is more like what happens in humans. To do this, they are using a type of animal called a nonhuman primate (NHP) and a virus that causes AIDS in NHPs, which is called Simian Immunodeficiency Virus (SIV). To make the test more like what happens in humans, the scientists want to give the NHPs a low dose of SIV in a way that replicates what happens in humans. To do this, they need to figure out the exact dose of SIV to use. This is a tricky thing to do because if the dose is too high, it might not be realistic to what happens in humans and the treatment might not work. If the dose is too low, the test might not be able to tell if the treatment worked or not because there might not be enough infections. To figure out the exact dose, the scientists used a special way of analyzing the data that was first invented almost 80 years ago by people named Reed and Muench. This analysis uses a lot of animals, but the scientists want to use fewer animals to make the test more like what happens in humans. They also want to make sure that the test is able to tell if the treatment worked or not. So, they came up with a new way of analyzing the data that uses fewer animals and makes sure that the test can tell if the treatment worked or not. This new way of analyzing the data will only use 15 animals instead of 48, which is what is usually used.
Scientists have found that some neurons in a cricket's auditory system adapt to changes in the environment by altering their response curves. This helps them to encode sounds more efficiently. Two different principles, called infomax and selective coding, have been proposed to explain how neurons adapt their response curves. However, these principles make conflicting predictions about how neurons should adjust their response curves when there are multiple sounds in the environment. To resolve this, the scientists conducted experiments and analyzed the results to see which principle was supported. They found that the neurons adapted their response curves to match the most intense sound in the environment, supporting the selective coding principle.
Prions are infectious particles that cause neurodegenerative diseases. They contain a protein called PrPSc, which is the main component of prions. Scientists have been able to make PrPSc using only a few ingredients in a lab, which helps them to study how PrPSc works. They have also used a method called sPMCA to see how PrPSc and a protein called PrPC interact and make new PrPSc molecules. However, it is not clear if the way that PrPSc and PrPC interact in this way is always the same for all PrPSc molecules. To study this, they created PrPSc molecules that did not have certain parts of them that are important for PrPC to bind to. They found that PrPSc molecules without these parts still worked well in sPMCA and helped to create new PrPSc molecules. They also used these new PrPSc molecules to study how PrPSc molecules that worked well in sPMCA were related to the chance of getting a neurodegenerative disease if you were infected with prions.
In this study, we used a new computational framework based on the concept of reinforcement learning (RL) to identify the behavioral strategies of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) while they migrate freely on a thermal gradient. We applied inverse RL (IRL) to time-series behavioral data collected from C. elegans, and discovered the value functions underlying thermotactic strategies. By comparing the behavior of fed and starved worms, we found that the fed worms based their behavior on sensory information of both absolute and temporal temperature derivatives, and showed two modes of migration: directed migration (DM) towards the cultivation temperature and isothermal migration (IM) along contour at constant temperature. Starved worms, in contrast, used only the absolute temperature information for escaping the cultivation temperature. We further applied IRL to thermosensory neuron-impaired worms to find that the so-called “AFD” neurons are fundamental for DM exhibited by the fed worms. Therefore, our framework can reveal the optimal state for the animals and the computational principles they use to reach that state, thereby providing clues for understanding the nervous system.
This paper describes the genome sequence of a type of alga called Chrysochromulina tobin, which is a member of the haptophyte group. Haptophytes are a diverse group of ancient eukaryotic organisms that are widely distributed in aquatic ecosystems. They are an important part of the food chain and are involved in various geochemical cycles on Earth. The paper highlights some interesting genetic features of Chrysochromulina tobin, such as the polyketide synthase-nonribosomal complex, MATE antimicrobial products, and laterally transferred genes that encode RuBisCO activase isoforms and a unique xanthorhodopsin. The paper suggests that genomic information about haptophytes will be useful for commercial endeavors, such as aquaculture feed production, nutraceutical production, plastic production, and biofuel production. Additionally, the paper notes that many haptophytes are toxic, and genomic information will help scientists understand the metabolic processes that lead to harmful algal bloom events.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a heterogeneous type of breast cancer characterized by the absence of estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, and HER2 receptors. The Basal-like molecular signature is frequently used to classify TNBC, but it is not always synonymous with TNBC. Claudin-low is another subtype of TNBC that is characterized by the reduced expression of intercellular junction components and the activation of molecular pathways associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, cancer stem cells, and the immune response. TNBC is sensitive to chemotherapy but has poor long-term outcomes due to high rates of relapse and chemoresistance. BRCA1 mutations, p53 mutations, and Rb inactivation have been implicated in the development of TNBC and other types of breast cancer. BRCA1 mutations account for nearly half of familial breast cancer cases, but can also occur in sporadic breast tumors without a family history of the disease. BRCA1 is involved in homologous recombination and non-homologous end-joining, which are important mechanisms for repairing DNA double-strand breaks. It also functions as a transcription factor and appears to be required for the differentiation of stem/progenitor cells into mature luminal cells. In this study, the authors combined Rb inactivation with Brca1 and p53 mutation in mice to create a mouse model that mimics the complexity of TNBC. The resulting tumors were characterized by rapid tumor progression, poor differentiation, distant metastasis, necrosis, metaplasia, and genomic instability, illustrating the compounding effect of acquiring multiple tumor suppressor mutations during tumor evolution.
The paper discusses how scientists have been studying the distribution of Aedes aegypti (the main mosquito species that transmits dengue virus) in urban and peri-urban environments. Scientists have found that Aedes aegypti are adapted to living with people and tend to lay their eggs in artificial containers found in human settlements. Therefore, reducing or eliminating the number of containers can help reduce the population of these mosquitoes. The paper also explains how scientists use a method called hurdle regression to predict the number of Aedes aegypti pupae in each container. This method allows scientists to account for variations in the number of containers and their types. The study was conducted in rural areas of Thailand. The findings suggest that the density of containers has a positive association with the number of pupae. This is important because pupae can become adults that can transmit dengue virus. The paper also discusses the use of surveys to gather data. Scientists have noticed that repeated surveys in the same area can affect the number of mosquitoes. The paper concludes that understanding the distribution of Aedes aegypti at the level of individual containers can help develop effective and sustainable vector control strategies, such as treatment and removal of the most productive containers.
C. elegans is a small nematode that uses gut-to-brain signaling to sense its nutritional state and regulate its behavior. During early development, the animal's nutritional experience affects its developmental trajectory and behavioral decisions. The intestine plays a crucial role in nutrient acquisition and modulates developmental and behavioral traits. Rict-1, a component of the TORC2 pathway, is required in the intestine to regulate neuronal expression of the daf-7 and daf-28 genes in response to nutritional cues. This regulation is integrated with temperature and pheromone cues to affect dauer formation. Rict-1 is also involved in the regulation of adult foraging behavior. The TORC2 pathway conveys nutritional information to the nervous system and allows the animal to adjust its behavior to its nutritional state.
Pluripotent stem cells are cells that have the ability to turn into any type of cell in the body. They are important because they can be used for cell replacement therapies. ES cells are a type of pluripotent stem cell that are very similar to embryos. PGCs are cells that become sperm or eggs. When PGCs are grown in a lab, they can turn into a type of stem cell called EG cells, which are very similar to ES cells. To understand how these stem cells work, scientists have been looking for the factors that control their growth and development. They have found that LIF and BMP signaling pathways help control ES cell growth and development, and that the transcription factors Oct4 and Nanog are important for ES cell development. However, there are still many other factors that scientists need to find in order to understand how these stem cells work. Scientists are using new technology to look for these factors. They are looking for groups of genes that are all turned on or off at the same time and then finding patterns in the DNA of these genes. They are also using computers to find patterns in the DNA of these genes. They have found some new patterns in the DNA of ES cells that may help them understand how these stem cells work. They also found that a type of transcription factor called NF-Y is important for ES cell development and may help them grow.
RNA viruses are a major group of viruses that can cause serious diseases in humans, such as measles, flu, and rabies. These viruses have a special protein called nucleoprotein (N) that helps to replicate the virus's DNA. However, for the DNA to be replicated, there needs to be a constant supply of N molecules. To do this, the virus uses another protein called phosphoprotein (P), which helps N to form a complex that can be used to replicate DNA. In this study, researchers created a new version of N that was missing the first 21 amino acids, called NΔ21, and then used P to help it form a complex. They then tested whether the complex could replicate DNA, and if it could, whether the protein P could help it do so. They found that the complex could indeed replicate DNA, and that P could help it do so by forming a stable complex with N and binding to any RNA molecules that were present. The researchers then crystallized the complex and found that P binds to N in a specific way that helps it to form a stable complex. They also used nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to show that the protein P binds to N in the same way in the crystals as it does in solution. Overall, the study showed that the protein P is important for the replication of RNA viruses and that it plays a key role in helping the virus to replicate its DNA.
The VS is a network of neurons in the fly's visual system that processes motion information. These neurons communicate with each other through gap junctions, which are small connections between neurons that allow current to flow. The VS neurons are connected in a way that allows them to efficiently encode information about motion. This is important for the fly's survival because it allows them to quickly and accurately respond to changes in their environment.
Enterovirus 71 (EV71) is a virus that causes hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD) in young children. Some EV71 strains use a molecule called PSGL-1 (P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1) as a receptor to infect cells, while others use a different molecule called SCARB2. PSGL-1 is a protein that helps cells move during inflammation. In this study, researchers used PSGL-1 mutants and an inhibitor of sulfation to investigate the involvement of post-translational modifications of PSGL-1 in the binding to EV71. They found that tyrosine sulfation of the N-terminal region of PSGL-1 facilitates PSGL-1–EV71 interaction and viral replication of EV71-PB in Jurkat T cells. This is the second direct example of the involvement of tyrosine sulfation in specific virus-receptor interactions, a modification that mediates viral entry and replication in target cells.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by a parasite carried by female sand flies, which can infect humans and cause three types of illnesses: cutaneous, mucocutaneous, and visceral. Leishmaniasis can be difficult to treat, and some species of the parasite are resistant to common treatments. Rapamycin and two other mTOR inhibitors were found to be effective in treating cutaneous leishmaniasis in mice, and the treatment led to a significant reduction in parasite burden and a decrease in morbidity.
In many species of bacteria, DNA can be taken up by the bacteria from the environment. This process is called natural transformation and it allows bacteria to acquire genetic material from other species, which can help them survive better in their environment. In a bacterium called Neisseria meningitidis, natural transformation is especially important because it helps the bacteria to adapt and survive in the human body. This is because N. meningitidis is a human pathogen, meaning that it can cause disease in humans. The bacteria can acquire genetic material from other bacteria that live in the same environment as them, which helps them become more virulent and better able to cause disease. Scientists have studied how natural transformation works in N. meningitidis and they have found that it involves several steps. First, the bacteria bind DNA to a protein called ComP, which is found on the outside of the bacteria. The bacteria then take up the DNA into their cells and use it to create new genetic material. Scientists have found that ComP is very important for natural transformation in N. meningitidis, and that it can only bind DNA that has a special sequence called DUS. This sequence is found in a small amount in the genome of N. meningitidis and in a closely related bacterium called N. gonorrhoeae. Scientists have also found that ComP is very similar to a protein found in other bacteria, which suggests that ComP-mediated selective uptake of homotypic DNA may be a widespread phenomenon. The identification of ComP as the DUS receptor in N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae has opened up new ways for scientists to study how natural transformation works in these bacteria and how it helps them survive in the human body.
Cytokinesis is the process by which a mother cell divides into two daughter cells. This process involves the contraction of a contractile actomyosin ring (CAR) that is present in all eukaryotic cells. Recent studies have shown that a pushing force is required for cytokinesis in addition to the pulling force provided by the CAR. To build this pushing force, fungal cells create a septum wall, which is composed of β-glucans and is essential for cell integrity. In fission yeast, the septum is divided into three layers: the middle primary septum, and two secondary septa on either side. The primary septum is made of linear β-glucans, while the secondary septa are made of branched β-glucans. α-glucans are also a major component of the cell wall, and are required for adhesion strength during cell separation and for maintaining the correct structure of the primary and secondary septa. Cdc15 is a protein that is crucial for CAR positioning and function, and is also involved in endocytosis. It participates in the delivery of β-glucan to the membrane during cytokinesis. The protein Rga7 is also involved in cytokinesis, and binds to Cdc15 in a protein complex that coordinates the late stages of cytokinesis. Pxl1 is a scaffold protein that binds to other proteins to help maintain the structure of the CAR. It also binds to Myo2, which is a type II myosin. Fission yeast has a different version of Pxl1, which shares some similarities with other paxillins, but has a different N-terminal region, which is required for binding to the Cdc15 and Imp2 SH3 domains. A protein called Bgs1 is also involved in cytokinesis, and is required for the stability of the CAR and for septum formation. In this study, the authors show that the functions of Pxl1 and Bgs1 are necessary for stable CAR anchorage and for the stability of the CAR. They also show that cooperation between these two proteins is essential for CAR maintenance and septum formation.
Glanders is a deadly disease caused by a bacteria called Burkholderia mallei. It affects both humans and animals. The only known reservoirs of this bacteria are solipeds, especially horses. These animals can be asymptomatic but still highly contagious. Because of its high infectivity and ability to be spread through the air, B. mallei is considered a potential bioterrorist threat. There is currently no licensed vaccine against glanders and antibiotic treatment is complicated and can take several weeks. In recent years, there has been a resurgence of glanders in many countries, including Bahrain. In 2010, an outbreak of glanders occurred in Bahrain, and it was suspected that horses imported from Syria were the source. In 2011, the disease reappeared in the same region of Bahrain, affecting more than 6,700 horses and 250 donkeys, as well as three camels. B. mallei was isolated from eight horses and one camel during the outbreak, and it was found that the strain from the camel was closely related to a strain isolated from a horse during a contained outbreak in a quarantine station in the United Arab Emirates in 2004. In this study, the authors characterized various B. mallei isolates from both the 2004 UAE outbreak and the 2010-'11 Bahrain outbreak, using a technique called multi-locus variable number tandem repeat analysis (MLVA) and next-generation whole genome sequencing. Their results provide evidence that the 2010-'11 Bahrain outbreak was caused by two different B. mallei strains, suggesting two independent introductions.
Leishmaniasis is a disease that is caused by parasites that are spread by bites from infected sandflies. It can cause different types of skin lesions, including small ulcers, larger ulcers that affect the mouth and nose, and ulcers that appear all over the body. The type of leishmaniasis that a person gets depends on the type of parasite and the person's immune response. In Colombia, the majority of cases of leishmaniasis are caused by a type of parasite called Leishmania (Viannia) species, which are more likely to cause more severe and long-lasting ulcers. Because of this, people with leishmaniasis in Colombia are often treated with a combination of antimony drugs that are given through injections. However, some people do not respond to this treatment. To understand why this happens, researchers in Colombia studied people with leishmaniasis who did not respond to antimony treatment. They looked at the characteristics of the parasites that caused the leishmaniasis, such as the species of parasite and how sensitive it was to antimony drugs. They also looked at the characteristics of the people who got leishmaniasis, such as their age, immune response, and adherence to treatment. By understanding the relationship between the parasite and the person, researchers hope to be able to develop better treatments for leishmaniasis in the future.
The paper explains the different types of E. coli and how they can be harmful to humans. E. coli can cause infections in the intestines and other parts of the body. To survive in the host, E. coli produces different types of molecules called siderophores, which help them to get iron. There are different types of siderophores and different enzymes are needed to make them. The paper looks at how different enzymes are used to make different siderophores and how these siderophores can be harmful to humans. The paper also talks about how E. coli can produce a toxin called colibactin, which can harm human cells. The paper looks at how different enzymes are used to make colibactin and how this toxin can be harmful to humans. The paper also talks about how E. coli can produce other harmful molecules called virulence factors. The paper looks at how different enzymes are used to make these virulence factors and how they can be harmful to humans. Overall, the paper explains how different enzymes are used to make different harmful molecules produced by E. coli and how these molecules can be harmful to humans.
The probability of a multiple alignment is a fundamental task in sequence analysis. It is used for phylogenetic tree inference by maximum likelihood or Bayesian approaches and for other sequence analysis problems such as HMMs and SCFGs. However, many widely used phylogenetic models only account for residue substitution events and ignore insertion and deletion events. The Felsenstein algorithm is a widely used algorithm for calculating the probability of an ungapped multiple alignment. It has the advantage of efficiency and is integrated with other probabilistic models for ungapped alignment analysis. However, when this approach is applied to gapped multiple sequence alignments, gap characters are typically treated as missing data, effectively equivalent to ignoring them. Several more formal approaches for treating insertions and deletions exist, including the Thorne-Kishino-Felsenstein model (tkf91) that treats insertion and deletion events as a continuous-time process governed by explicit insertion and deletion rate parameters. Several extensions of tkf91 have appeared, including practical applications for pairwise alignment and multiple alignment. In general, all algorithms in this class have difficult time complexities, worst-case exponential in the number of sequences. Here, the authors propose a non-reversible generative model based on a Markov process that is readily incorporated into an existing phylogenetic inference application, resulting in a gain in its accuracy.
A recent paper has been published on the role of skin dendritic cells (DCs) in the immune response to herpes simplex virus (HSV). The paper is a review of the current understanding of how skin DCs interact with HSV and how this leads to an immune response. The paper highlights the different types of skin DCs that play a role in this process and how they can either directly or indirectly present HSV to immune cells. The paper also discusses the different ways in which skin DCs can interact with HSV, including the uptake of the virus by Langerhans cells (LCs) and their subsequent presentation of HSV antigens to immune cells. Overall, the paper provides a comprehensive overview of the complex interactions between skin DCs and HSV and highlights the importance of these interactions in the development of an effective immune response.
Leishmania spp. are parasites that infect humans and animals and can cause diseases such as kala-azar (in India) and cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in various regions of the world. These parasites have a unique way of living inside their host cells by forming parasitophorous vacuoles (PVs) that are separate from the rest of the cell. In some cases, these PVs can contain multiple amastigotes that are bound by their posterior poles to the inner surface of the PV. These PVs have certain markers that show that they are fusing with other parts of the cell, such as late endosomes, and that they are changing as time goes on. This study looked at the biogenesis of PVs in live cells using a multidimensional imaging technique, and found that Leishmania spp. have a two-step process for creating PVs that are bound by their posterior poles to the inner surface of the PV. They also found that the biogenesis of these PVs involves the fusion of PVs and the accumulation of lysosomotropic probe. Additionally, this study found that the formation of large PVs involves an increase in volume and diameter, and that this is at the expense of other PVs in the same cell. Finally, they found that PVs can fuse with each other to form larger PVs.
The article describes the process of homologous recombination and its role in repairing DNA damage in living cells. This process can be influenced by the structure of the donor DNA molecule that serves as a template for repair. To study this process, the authors used the DT40 chicken cell line, which undergoes high levels of homologous gene targeting. They found that the donor DNA molecule used for repair contained modified histones, indicating an open chromatin structure. The authors then manipulated the chromatin structure of the donor DNA molecule by tethering the HP1 protein to it. This caused a switch from a permissive to a nonpermissive chromatin structure, and resulted in a switch from templated to nontemplated repair, with the formation of point mutations. These findings suggest that the chromatin structure of the donor DNA molecule is an important regulator of homologous recombination and may play a role in the development of diseases such as cancer.
The cerebellum is responsible for motor learning. The climbing fiber system, which originates from the inferior olive, conveys information about errors in the subject's behavior, which is needed to improve future manifestations of the same behavior. This information is then used by the cerebellum to optimize behavior. However, recent studies have found that the climbing fiber system may also store information about past errors to be considered for future manifestations of the same behavior. This memory is stored in the parallel fiber synapses impinging on the PCs. The climbing fiber system helps to conserve information on error for the future, rather than being confined to conveying information on instant errors.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a disease that affects the nervous system and causes the death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. The disease is often associated with the presence of a protein called TDP-43 in cytoplasmic inclusions. ALS is thought to be related to a common disease mechanism involving TDP-43 mislocalization and aggregation, which is also seen in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). TDP-43 is an RNA-DNA binding protein found in the nucleus under normal circumstances, but can form aggregates in the cytoplasm under certain conditions. ALS and FTD are thought to be related to a disease mechanism involving the conversion of soluble cellular proteins into aggregated forms that seed further aggregation. This process, called prion-like aggregation, has also been observed in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and ALS. Yeast proteins have been shown to convert into prion-like aggregates and are associated with transmissible phenotypes in yeast. Overexpression of the yeast protein Sis1 has been shown to reduce the toxicity of human Huntington's disease protein with an expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tract when expressed in yeast. Sis1 is required for the fragmentation of prion oligomers, and overexpression of Sis1 rescues yeast from toxicity associated with overexpression of several prion or prion-like proteins. This study shows that excess Sis1 reduces the toxicity of overexpressed TDP-43 in yeast, and overexpression of the mammalian Sis1 homologue, DNAJB1, reduces TDP-43 toxicity in primary rodent cortical neurons. The study also provides evidence that TDP-43 impedes the UPS-mediated degradation of cytosolic misfolded proteins, and that overexpression of Sis1 restores degradation even in the presence of excess TDP-43. These findings suggest that Sis1 and its homologues may have neuroprotective effects in ALS.
Chagas disease (CD) is a serious parasitic infection caused by the flagellate protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It affects poor populations in 21 countries in Latin America, leading to significant consequences for public health and national economies. There are six discrete typing units (DTUs) of T. cruzi, each with different levels of pathogenicity, sensitivity to drugs and disease prognosis. The current real time PCR assays have shown satisfactory sensitivity and accuracy for the detection and quantification of T. cruzi from peripheral blood samples of Chagas disease patients, even in the chronic phase of the disease. Recently, a consensus real time PCR assay was published for the quantification of parasite load from blood samples of Chagas disease patients, which did not show a correlation between T. cruzi parasitemia and the clinical form of the disease or for patients infected with distinct DTUs. However, a wide range of parasite load and its association with the T. cruzi genotyping and severity level of the disease in patients with Chagas cardiac disease from different localities in Brazil were not further explored yet. In this study, parasite load and molecular diversity of T. cruzi were directly assessed from blood samples of patients born in different states from Brazil, presenting different levels of Chagas cardiac disease, who were being assisted at an outpatient clinic from the Instituto Nacional de Infectologia Evandro Chagas (INI), Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz), city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The study was conducted before defining the etiological treatment and the patients were classified as presenting Chagas cardiac or indeterminate clinical chronic forms at the beginning of the follow-up. The results reinforce the epidemiological knowledge of T. cruzi DTUs in Brazil and their possible association with the severity of Chagas disease.
Bats are known to carry a variety of infectious diseases and are considered one of the most important animals to study for disease ecology. Guatemala has a diverse bat population, with over 100 species. In recent years, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has conducted research on bat-borne diseases in Guatemala, including the discovery of novel viral and bacterial agents. The most pressing threat from bats in Guatemala is rabies, a deadly disease that affects the brain and can be transmitted to humans. Rabies is spread by RABV, which can be divided into two major clades: one associated with carnivores around the world and one associated with bats. In Latin America, RABV is divided into two epizootiological forms, or cycles: urban and sylvatic. The urban cycle involves dogs as the primary reservoir host and vector, while the sylvatic cycle involves wildlife. Vampire bats, which are found only in Latin America, are highly effective at transmitting RABV to a wide diversity of mammals. In Guatemala, rabies surveillance is passive, meaning that samples from suspected cases are collected and tested. Despite the potential for RABV to be present in Guatemalan bats, none have been tested and no cases have been reported. The objective of this study was to use enhanced surveillance to test for the presence of RABV in bats and to determine its geographic distribution in Guatemala. The results of this study can help us better understand the public and veterinary health risks associated with bats in Guatemala.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infects and takes over the nucleus of a host cell. This infection involves the transcription and replication of viral genes, as well as changes to the structure of the nucleus. During early times of infection, HSV DNA replicates and viral proteins remodel the nucleus at the periphery. It is also known that the nuclear lamina, a structure on the inner side of the nuclear membrane, helps maintain the structure of the nucleus. In this study, we have shown that lamin-dependent targeting of the HSV genome to the nuclear periphery is associated with a reduction of heterochromatin on viral lytic genes.
Mitochondria are organelles that produce energy in cells. In the past, these organelles originated from proteobacteria and evolved to become more complex. The import of proteins into mitochondria is a process that is carried out by the TOM complex. This complex is composed of several subunits that are involved in the process of import. In different organisms, the TOM complex has different subunits. In this study, the TOM complex from a hydrogenosome was studied. Hydrogenosomes are a type of organelle that are found in some organisms that do not have oxygen. They are similar to mitochondria but function differently. The TOM complex from the hydrogenosome was found to have some subunits that are similar to those found in the TOM complex of mitochondria. However, it also had several unique subunits. The study suggests that the TOM complex from hydrogenosomes may have evolved differently than the TOM complex from mitochondria.
T cells are a key part of the body's defense against infections and diseases. These cells are activated and differentiated into different subtypes to fight against various infections and diseases. The body has ways to control the activation of T cells, and genetic variants can affect how the T cells work. In this study, the authors purified CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from the blood of healthy people to understand how genetic variants affect the expression of genes in these cells. They found that the genetic variants found in whole blood could be attributed to these T cell types. They also found that genetic variants can affect the expression of genes in different ways and can be related to diseases such as type 1 diabetes. They also found that T cells from people with type 1 diabetes have a missense variant in IL27, which affects how the cells work.
African sleeping sickness, also known as Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), is a serious disease that affects people in poor rural areas. There are two stages of HAT, early haemo-lymphatic and advanced meningo-encephalitic. The early stage has non-specific signs, and the infected people do not need to consult a health provider. The advanced stage is characterized by an impairment of the central nervous system resulting in various neurological and psychiatric manifestations. The treatment options for HAT are limited, and the advanced stage of the disease was until recently treated with melarsoprol, an arsenic derivative. In recent years, a combination treatment regime has replaced melarsoprol as first-line treatment for second-stage HAT, but logistical and financial factors may interfere with its deployment. Qualitative research conducted in the Democratic Republic of Congo found that fear of drug toxicity, financial considerations, and taboos associated with the treatment regimen were the most important barriers that prevented the population from participating in HAT screening and treatment campaigns. The nature of these taboos and their duration negatively affected the participation rate of these communities in HAT screening as well as the treatment adherence of confirmed patients. In this study, we specifically investigated the origin of these taboos and explore how the HAT control program should address those barriers. A better understanding of these beliefs and their origin can lead to informed strategies for the DRC's HAT control program to address these barriers and further improve the coverage of ongoing screening and treatment activities.
Visceral leishmaniasis, also known as "kala-azar," is a parasitic disease caused by the Leishmania donovani complex, which is spread by sand flies. It mainly affects areas in South Asia and Eastern Africa. In Sudan, where the disease is caused by L. donovani, there is a high incidence of the disease, with some villages having up to 60 cases per 1000 people per year. The disease typically develops 2 weeks to 1 year after infection, with signs including fever, enlarged spleen, weight loss, and swollen lymph nodes. The disease can be cured, but some patients develop a skin rash called post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), which can last for years and may be a reservoir for transmission. The survey aimed to estimate the incidence rate of the disease at the village level and to gather information on the proportion of people previously treated for the disease, the proportion of PKDL cases among previously treated people, and the proportion of the population treated for the disease in the past. This information can help to determine the best way to control and treat the disease.
The study investigated the relationship between the levels of supercoiling in bacterial DNA and transcription elongation rates. Supercoiling is a process by which DNA is twisted, and the number of twists or supercoils affects the structure of the DNA. The study found that negative supercoiling levels were linked to transcription elongation rates and that temperature sensitive mutations in gyrase and Topo IV caused significant changes in genome-wide negative supercoil levels. Transcription played a causal role in the supercoil losses and supercoiling rebounded after addition of rifampicin (Rif), which blocked transcription initiation. The study proposed that the average chromosome supercoil density is an integral function of topoisomerases and RNA polymerase working in tempo together.
Leishmania parasites cause a range of human diseases, depending on the species and the host's genetic and immune composition. Macrophages and fibroblasts are known to harbor these parasites, and intracellular amastigotes replicate within parasitophorous vacuoles (PV) that share several properties with late endosomes/lysosomes, including low luminal pH and lysosome-specific membrane proteins and acidic hydrolases. L. amazonensis is adept at surviving intracellular killing mechanisms and forms large communal PVs that continually fuse with lysosomes and phagolysosomes. To test the hypothesis that PV expansion protects L. amazonensis from host killing mechanisms, we investigated the expression and role of LYST/Beige, a gene known to regulate lysosome size in mammalian cells. Our results show that L. amazonensis infections upregulate LYST/Beige transcription, resulting in the control of PV expansion and inhibition of intracellular growth.
Circuit formation is the way that the nervous system forms and works. Deficiencies in the formation of circuits can cause genetic mental-retardation syndromes. However, the mechanisms and treatment of these syndromes are not clear because the brain is very complex. One of these syndromes is Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS). In AHDS, mutations in a gene called monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) cause severe psychomotor retardation in young boys. AHDS is characterized by several neurological impairments such as lack of speech, seizures, and severe cognitive deficiency. MCT8 is a protein that helps the thyroid hormone enter cells, and AHDS patients have problems with their thyroid hormone levels. In all animals, thyroid hormone is important for development, growth, and metabolism. To study AHDS, researchers created a knockout mouse model that lacks MCT8. These mice have the same endocrine and metabolic problems as AHDS patients, but they do not have any neurological or behavioral problems. This is because the protein OATP1C1, which helps the thyroid hormone enter the brain, is expressed in mice but not in humans. To create a better model for AHDS, researchers have used the zebrafish to create a mutant (mct8−/−) that lacks MCT8. They found that the mutant zebrafish have altered expression of genes related to myelin formation, deficiencies in axon branching and synaptic density, and altered locomotor activity and sleep. They also found that TH analogs can partially restore these neurological problems. These findings suggest a possible treatment for AHDS and potentially other related psychomotor retardation disorders.
Herpesviruses need two membrane proteins (gB and gH/gL) to enter cells. The gB protein from herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is similar to the fusion protein VSV G, suggesting that gB is a fusion protein. However, unlike VSV G, HSV-1 gB needs additional proteins to fuse membranes. For HSV-1, gD binds receptors, and then it is believed that gD interacts with gH/gL, which then interacts with gB to trigger fusion. For human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), gH/gL binds receptors and may transmit signals to gB for fusion. In previous studies, it was shown that HSV-1 gB interacts with gH/gL after gD binds receptors and then interacts with gH/gL. However, this interaction was not observed directly with wild-type glycoproteins in virus-infected cells or in virus particles. In the present study, it was demonstrated that HCMV gB and gH/gL proteins directly interact with each other without the need for other HCMV proteins. It was also shown that a significant fraction of HCMV gH/gL forms stable complexes with gB in virions and that gB-gH/gL complexes might initiate membrane fusion between the virion envelope and cellular membranes.
This article describes a study that investigated why certain types of mammalian mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are selected for in certain tissues while others are not. The researchers used a heteroplasmic mouse model that has two different mtDNA haplotypes. These two haplotypes are transmitted through the female germline in a neutral way, but in post-natal life, one of the haplotypes accumulates more in hematopoietic tissues while the other accumulates more in the kidney and liver. The researchers found that nuclear-encoded genes regulate this selection process, and they also identified a gene called Gimap3 that is critical for regulating mtDNA segregation in hematopoietic tissues.
Buruli ulcer is a skin and soft tissue infection caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans. It is a neglected tropical disease, most commonly found in sub-Saharan Africa. However, cases have been reported in over 30 countries worldwide. In Victoria, Australia, a study was conducted on 23 cases with single exposures to endemic areas between 2002 and 2012, with the mean incubation period estimated at 135 days or 4.5 months. Recently, there has been an increase in the number of BU cases in Victoria, associated with a shift in its geographic distribution. A further refined incubation period estimate was obtained, and the trend in IP over time was assessed, increasing the power of statistical analyses exploring relationships between IP and clinical characteristics. Additionally, the public health implications of this information were considered.
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that takes over the nutrient-filled vacuoles in the cells of its host. To do this, it can take control of the host cell's organelles and pathways. But how does the parasite get the nutrients it needs? A team of scientists studied how Toxoplasma gondii gets its cholesterol, a type of fatty acid that is essential for the parasite to grow and develop. They found that the parasite can use its own special proteins to move cholesterol around inside the parasite. By studying these proteins and how they work, the scientists learned more about how Toxoplasma gondii can survive and thrive in its host's cells.
Anophthalmia, a rare birth defect in which the eye fails to form during development, has been linked to mutations in several genes. Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS) is a form of anophthalmia that is characterized by limb abnormalities such as postaxial polydactyly and oligodactyly. In this study, researchers used genetic mapping techniques and whole exome sequencing to identify the cause of OAS. They found that a loss-of-function mutation in the SMOC1 gene was responsible for the disease in 8 out of 14 unrelated families with OAS. The mutation was associated with a developmental defect in the eye and limb structures, suggesting that SMOC1 plays a role in these processes. The findings provide important insights into the molecular basis of anophthalmia and its associated limb abnormalities.
The interferon system is a group of proteins that help protect the body from viruses. It is known to block both early and late stages of the HIV-1 (the virus that causes AIDS) life cycle. However, the specific proteins and processes involved in this inhibition have not been fully understood. In this study, the researchers used a type of test called microarrays to identify specific proteins that are induced by interferons. They found that a protein called TRIM22 was the most induced protein among a group of TRIM proteins that are known to help the immune system fight viruses. They then studied TRIM22 in more detail and found that it blocked the release of HIV-1 particles from infected cells. This blocking was shown to be dependent on the RING domain of TRIM22. Overall, this study provides new information about how the interferon system works to block HIV-1 infection.
Fig trees and their pollinator wasp partners have an important relationship that helps both species thrive. However, the wasps often lay their eggs in ways that can harm the tree, so there must be something that prevents the wasps from overexploiting the tree. Researchers have studied this relationship for many years, and they have found that wasps tend to lay their eggs in ovules that are closest to the center of the fig, because it is easier to lay eggs there and because the offspring have a better chance of survival. This helps to ensure that the fig-wasp relationship continues over time.
Plant growth is influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Understanding how these factors interact to determine growth is important for agriculture. Height is an important component of plant architecture and has been studied for over a century. Increased height allows plants to compete for sunlight, but also requires more energy to build stem tissue and can increase the risk of lodging. Wheat and rice varieties bred during the Green Revolution were shorter to reduce lodging and improve yield. In biomass crops, height is positively correlated with above-ground biomass. Plant height varies depending on the crop and breeding objective. Genetic studies have identified many QTL associated with plant height, and forward genetic screens have been effective for identifying causative genes. Environmental factors such as water availability and planting density also affect plant height. Recent use of high-throughput phenotyping technology is making it easier to study plant height. The genus Setaria is a good model system for studying plant growth because it has desirable experimental and life history attributes. In this study, we used a Setaria RIL population to identify 37 QTL associated with plant height across 12 different experiments with varying environmental conditions. Many of the identified QTL are not associated with known height genes in the Poaceae. These results suggest a strategy for fine-tuning plant height in the future.
In 1944, a virus called Ilheus virus (ILHV) was discovered in mosquitoes during a yellow fever epidemiological investigation in Brazil. Since then, ILHV has been found in several countries in South America and the Caribbean, causing mainly asymptomatic infections in humans. However, it can also cause encephalitis, a rare but serious condition. ILHV is believed to be maintained in zoonotic cycles between birds and mosquitoes, and has been isolated from mosquitoes in Central and South America, as well as from monkeys, man, and birds. In the 1990s, ILHV was found in wild birds in southeast Brazil. Little is known about ILHV infections in domestic animals, but it has been found in horses from the Pantanal region of Brazil. To better understand ILHV's presence in the region, adult female mosquitoes were collected and tested for infectious virus and for flavivirus RNA detection.
Scabies is a common skin infection that causes itching and rashes. It is a major public health issue worldwide, with estimates of 100-130 million cases per year. Children, people living in economically disadvantaged areas, and those with weakened immune systems are particularly vulnerable. Currently, there are only a few treatments available, and they do not work well. One of the best treatments is a drug called ivermectin, but it only works for a short time and does not kill the eggs. A new drug called moxidectin may be a better option, but more research is needed to test its effectiveness and safety before it can be used.
This paper is about a protein complex that makes up the cell wall of bacteria. The cell wall is important for keeping bacteria alive, but it also makes them resistant to antibiotics. Researchers wanted to study the protein complex but there were too many proteins in it. They wanted to see if the bacteria would still be alive if they had fewer proteins in the complex. To do this, they used a special kind of bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus. This bacteria only has four proteins in the complex, so it was easier to study. The researchers found that three of these proteins are essential for the bacteria to live, while the fourth is not. They also found that if the bacteria didn't have the fourth protein, they were more sensitive to antibiotics and less able to survive in a host. This shows that all the proteins in the complex are important for the bacteria to live and be resistant to antibiotics.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacterium that can cause a severe disease called melioidosis. This disease can be fatal in some cases. B. pseudomallei survives in soil and water as a saprophyte, but it can also infect animals. To survive in the environment, bacteria need to get iron from different sources. Iron is essential for bacteria, and B. pseudomallei uses different ways to get it. There are two main strategies that B. pseudomallei uses to acquire iron: taking up iron-siderophore complexes and taking up heme. Scientists have not studied iron acquisition mechanisms in B. pseudomallei as much as they have in other types of bacteria. However, studies have shown that B. pseudomallei produces a hydroxamate-type siderophore called malleobactin. This siderophore allows the bacteria to get iron from different sources, including lactoferrin and transferrin. Genome-wide microarray expression and whole genome sequence analyses have identified other genes that B. pseudomallei uses to get iron. However, no one has studied how important these iron acquisition mechanisms are for B. pseudomallei's ability to cause melioidosis. A previous study discovered that a clinical isolate of B. pseudomallei called 708a has a large genomic deletion that includes the amrAB-oprA efflux pump operon. This deletion explains why 708a is sensitive to gentamicin. However, 708a still caused melioidosis and was fully lethal in an acute murine melioidosis model. This finding was surprising because in other bacteria, the lack of an important siderophore can affect their ability to cause disease. To study this further, researchers made isogenic B. pseudomallei mutants to determine the contribution of different iron acquisition systems to virulence. They found that none of these systems are required for lethality in an acute murine melioidosis model. However, they found evidence for a ferritin-iron utilization system.
Genome-scale metabolic reconstructions, or GSMs, are databases that provide information about an organism's metabolic processes. GSMs are used to study things like the growth and function of cells, and how different genes and proteins interact to produce those functions. However, different GSMs for the same organism may not be identical, and it can be difficult to determine which one is more accurate or useful. A new tool called COMMGEN has been developed to automatically reconcile these different GSMs and create a more complete and accurate consensus GSM for the organism in question. This consensus GSM can then be used to better understand the organism's metabolism and its interactions with other organisms.
Vertebrate bones are made in two different ways: intramembranous ossification and endochondral ossification. Endochondral ossification is a process with many steps that need to happen in the right order and at the right time. First, some cells in a tissue called mesenchymal condensation turn into chondrocytes, which make a cartilage matrix. Then, a layer of cells called perichondrium surrounds the cartilage. Later, some of the perichondrial cells turn into bone-making osteoblasts. All of these steps happen in the right order and at the right time because of interactions between the cartilage and perichondrium tissues. A gene called Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is important for this process and mutations in this gene cause delayed perichondral bone formation. Several other genes that are involved in making proteoglycans (PGs), which are important parts of the cartilage matrix, also affect the timing of endochondral ossification. Mutations in genes that make heparan sulfate PGs or chondroitin sulfate PGs (CSPGs) cause different problems with bone development. Aggrecan is a type of CSPG that is important for bone development and mutations in the aggrecan gene cause early bone formation. In this study, the authors found new mutations in two genes that are important for making CSPGs. These mutations cause defects in CSPG production. The authors found that chondrocytes in these mutants undergo precocious (early) maturation, which leads to early perichondral bone formation. This shows that making CSPGs is important for the right timing of endochondral ossification.
Researchers have found that some Drosophila melanogaster chromosomes do not mix properly during meiosis, a process where genetic material is combined and shuffled. These chromosomes are marked by certain types of DNA, and they tend to stay together and not mix. The researchers think that these chromosomes might be physically linked by special DNA strands. They used a genetic tool to reduce the amount of a protein called Top2, which is needed for genetic material to mix properly. When they did this, the chromosomes did not mix properly, and the eggs could not develop normally. This shows that the mixing of genetic material during meiosis is important for the eggs to develop properly.
The article describes the study evaluating the effectiveness of using collars impregnated with 4% deltamethrin to protect dogs against Leishmaniasis, a disease transmitted by sand flies. The study was conducted in two areas in Brazil: an intervention area, where the collars were distributed to all dogs, and a control area, where dogs were euthanized if seropositive. The results showed that the use of the collars significantly reduced the number of dogs with Leishmaniasis in the intervention area compared to the control area. This study suggests that the use of collars impregnated with 4% deltamethrin could be an effective and safe alternative to euthanizing dogs in areas with high Leishmaniasis transmission rates.
In this study, the authors present a new model for the evolution of gene content on the X chromosome. The X chromosome is unusual in many ways, including a high proportion of time spent in two different sexes and an unusual recombination environment. This has led to reduced recombination rates, lower mutation rates, and an unusual effective population size. In addition, the X chromosome is expected to have an unusual gene content. The authors suggest a new model called the "weak X" or "traffic jam" model, which predicts that high levels of expression on the X chromosome may be limited due to transcriptional traffic jams. This may explain why male-specific expression is not seen on the X chromosome in some organisms. The authors test this model using an exceptional expression resource, Functional Annotation of the Mammalian Genome (FANTOM5), and a merge of FANTOM5 with The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE). They find evidence that genes with very high maximal levels of expression are more likely to be located on autosomes rather than the X chromosome. This supports their "weak X" or "traffic jam" model.
This study focused on the diversity of Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that infects the stomach of humans. There are different populations of H. pylori that have evolved over time in different parts of the world. Three main populations were identified in Africa: hpNEAfrica, hpAfrica1, and hpAfrica2. These populations were found to be associated with different groups of people in Africa, such as Nilo-Saharan speakers and click-speaking hunter-gatherers. The study aimed to investigate whether Pygmy hunter-gatherers in Cameroon also have a unique population of H. pylori, similar to the San. However, the study did not find a new population of H. pylori in the Pygmies, and it was concluded that their infections were acquired from non-Pygmy neighbors. The study also examined the frequency of H. pylori infections in the Pygmies and found that it was lower than in their non-Pygmy neighbors. The study suggests that the prevalence of H. pylori infections in the Pygmies is limited by their smaller population size and other demographic factors.
This study examined the reason for the different subcellular localization of DENV1 and 2 NS5 proteins in infected cells. The researchers discovered a C-terminal monopartite NLS in DENV2 NS5 that resides within residues 883–900. This NLS is responsible for the different subcellular localization of DENV1 and 2 NS5 proteins. This finding has implications for the pathogenesis of DENV and suggests that the C-terminal region of NS5 carries out an evolutionarily conserved function that is essential for flavivirus replication and pathogenesis.
NTDs are a group of diseases that affect poor people around the world and cause physical and social problems. These diseases include lymphatic filariasis, trachoma, schistosomiasis, onchocerciasis, and soil-transmitted helminths. Currently, many countries are working to control or eliminate these diseases through mass drug administration. This requires conducting prevalence surveys to determine if the disease levels have reached the threshold for public health intervention. This paper presents a new methodology for conducting prevalence surveys for multiple diseases in one go. This methodology is called the integrated threshold mapping (ITM) methodology. The ITM methodology has been tested in two countries and has been found to be feasible, practical, and accurate in determining whether a disease has reached the threshold for public health intervention.
In yeast, proteins need to communicate with chromosomes to control the timing of cell division. This communication happens through a protein called Cdc14. Cdc14 is kept away from its targets by another protein, Cfi1/Net1, which is bound to chromosomes. When cells enter anaphase, Cfi1/Net1 is phosphorylated, which causes it to be released from chromosomes. This allows Cdc14 to dephosphorylate other proteins and promote cell division. Different proteins help control the release of Cdc14, and these proteins work together in two pathways called the FEAR and MEN networks. The MEN network is better understood, and it uses a protein called Tem1 to control the release of Cdc14. The FEAR network controls the release of Cdc14 in a way that is independent of the MEN network. It uses proteins like Esp1, Zds1, and Zds2 to control the release of Cdc14. The study showed that histone modifications are required for the early release of Cdc14 during anaphase. Specifically, the study showed that the protein that adds methyl groups to histones, called Dot1, is required for the early release of Cdc14. This requirement is independent of the MEN network and the proteins that control the release of Cdc14 in the FEAR network.
The article explains the development of a new method called GeneProgram, which is used to analyze large compendia of gene expression data from humans. This method identifies sets of genes that are co-activated in response to different biological conditions, such as infectious agents or immune-modulating molecules, and characterizes the functional breadth of these sets. The method is based on a Bayesian approach that uses probabilistic models to account for noise and the potential overlap of genes among sets. By applying GeneProgram to a large compendium of short time-series gene expression datasets, the authors discovered a set of biologically interpretable expression programs and characterized their specificity. They found that some of these programs are specific to certain cell types or pathological conditions, while others are active across diverse cell types or pathological states, providing insight into unexpected functional similarities and involvement of core common pathways. The article also provides a comparison with other unsupervised learning algorithms that have previously been applied to gene expression data, including biclustering, topic modeling, and hierarchical Dirichlet Process mixture models. The authors benchmarked their algorithm on two large compendia of mammalian data, and applied it to a compendium of 62 short time-series gene expression datasets, measuring the responses of human cells to infectious agents or immune-modulating molecules. The resulting expression programs were organized by functional generality scores, which indicate their usefulness as diagnostic markers or drug targets. The authors also discussed the significance of their findings and potential future research directions.
This article is about the regulation of interferon (IFN)-gamma expression in immune cells. The authors found that TH1-lineage commitment is epigenetically regulated by imprinting of the IFNG locus in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. They also showed that effector/memory but not naïve CD8+ T cells display an open configuration in the IFNG promoter and upstream regions. Furthermore, they found that primary MCMV infection of mice induces the expansion of Ly49H+ NK cells that display memory-like features, which may be associated with epigenetic regulation of the IFNG locus. Finally, they showed that only HCMV-specific NKG2Chi expansions and cytokine-primed NK cells display an open configuration at the IFNG CNS1, which acts as an enhancer of IFNG transcriptional activity in response to NKG2C and actR engagement. In summary, the authors highlight the importance of epigenetic regulation of the IFNG locus in the stability and high competence of IFN-gamma production in immune cells displaying memory-like features.
The study is about the bacteria Legionella pneumophila and the proteins it produces to take over host cells during infection. These proteins are called "effector proteins" and they can control host cell functions to help the bacteria survive and replicate. There are many effector proteins produced by Legionella pneumophila, but their functions are not fully understood. The study focuses on one of these effector proteins, called LubX, which has a special domain called a U-box that can bind to other proteins. The study found that LubX can bind to a protein called Clk1 and help to break it down. It is not clear what the consequences of this action are, but it is known that LubX is produced later in infection than other effectors, so it may play a role in regulating the activity of other effector proteins. The study also found that LubX can target another effector protein called SidH and regulate its activity in the host cells. This is the first time that a bacterial effector has been shown to target and regulate another effector protein within host cells, so the study proposes the designation of "metaeffector" for this class of effector proteins.
The study examined how the virus that is transmitted during HIV infection evolves and diversifies in the early stages of infection. The study used data from 81 patients who had recently been infected with HIV-1 subtype B, and analyzed their genetic material collected from a single timepoint during acute or early infection. The analysis showed that the virus diversified rapidly after transmission, and that the diversification was driven by selection pressure to escape the host's immune response. The study also found that the virus evolved to avoid antiviral proteins called APOBEC, which mutate the virus's genetic material. Additionally, the study found that insertions and deletions of genetic material were evenly spread throughout the virus's genetic material, but that they were more likely to be fixed in the variable regions of the virus. Overall, the study provides insights into the process of diversification of the virus after transmission and its interactions with the host's immune response.
This paper reviews the molecular biology of the yeast silencing system and its central puzzles. It introduces the Sir proteins, which are crucial for heterochromatin formation, and explains how they interact with histone tails. The paper also explains the role of other proteins such as Orc, Rap1, Abf1, and Dot1. Additionally, it discusses the importance of histone modifications in regulating transcriptional activity and highlights how these modifications can lead to the formation of bivalent chromatin states. The paper concludes with an overview of the mathematical model developed to explain the core mechanism of epigenetic fates.
Malnutrition is a major issue in many parts of the world. It can lead to two different conditions, oedematous and non-oedematous SAM. Oedematous malnutrition is a life-threatening condition that causes swelling in the limbs, liver, and skin, as well as apathy. While researchers have been studying this condition for a while, they still don't know what causes it. Some studies suggest that the problem could be related to the microorganisms in the gut. These microorganisms, or gut microbiota, might be causing oedematous malnutrition. To test this theory, researchers have been comparing the gut microbiota of malnourished children with healthy children. Some studies have found that malnourished children have more harmful bacteria in their gut than healthy children. However, it's not clear if there is a difference in gut microbiota between the two types of malnutrition, oedematous and non-oedematous SAM. In this study, researchers wanted to find out if there was a difference in gut microbiota between these two types of malnutrition.
Telomeres are protein sites at the end of chromosomes that are found in most eukaryotic species. Telomeric DNA is composed of repeating G-rich sequences. Telomeric DNA is bound by a group of proteins that form a structure that hides the chromosome ends from DNA repair enzymes. Telomere length is species and chromosome specific and appears to play an important role in the normal functioning of a cell. Telomerase, a specialized reverse transcriptase, replenishes telomeric DNA during DNA replication. There are differences in telomere length among different species of yeast, worms, mice, plants, and humans. In S. cerevisiae, the mean telomeric length is ∼350 bp while in humans it is several kilobases. In S. cerevisiae, telomere length is influenced by telomerase (including its RNA template TLC1), Rap1, yKu, and Mre11 complexes, Pif1p, and Cdc13p. In this study, the authors investigated the variation in telomere length among 112 Saccharomyces isolates, mostly belonging to the S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus species, previously characterized for their subtelomeric structure and Ty prevalence. S. cerevisiae has been used for thousands of years by humans, while S. paradoxus has had no such interaction with humans. S. paradoxus has three major geographic subpopulations: European, Far Eastern, and American. Subtelomeric structures are highly variable between S. paradoxus subpopulations. The overall sequence variation found in S. paradoxus (up to 4.5%) is much greater than in any S. cerevisiae analyzed (∼0.7%). The authors describe the phenotypic telomeric differences among Saccharomyces strains and the genetic mechanisms underlying this variation.
Many of our daily decisions, such as buying a new computer, are based on multiple sources of information, including price, quality, and appearance. Usually, we make these decisions sequentially, meaning that we keep searching for more information until we have enough evidence to make a choice. However, decisions not to decide can also influence our behavior. For example, if we are unsure about a particular choice, we may decide to consult a salesman or leave the shop. These "decisions not to decide" are not directly observable, but they can have significant effects on our behavior.
The outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, is composed of a layer of cells called keratinocytes. These cells continuously divide and move upwards, becoming more specialized as they go along. The entire epidermis renews itself every 40-60 days in humans, 8-10 days in mice, and 22 days in dogs. Keratinocytes go through different stages of development as they move upwards. In their final stage, called terminal differentiation, they lose their nuclei and organelles to become corneocytes, which form the outermost layer of the epidermis. The genetic and molecular mechanisms that control this process are not well understood. In this study, we used genetic analysis to identify the genetic defect causing hereditary nasal parakeratosis (HNPK) in Labrador Retrievers. HNPK affects the specialized epidermis of the nose and causes the skin to thicken, retain its nuclei, and accumulate fluid. HNPK is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and has only been described in Labrador Retrievers. We used a genome-wide association study and whole genome sequencing of an affected Labrador Retriever to identify the genetic lesion responsible for HNPK.
Influenza A viruses, or IAVs, are negative-strand RNA viruses with eight gene segments ranging from 890 to 2,341 nucleotides. IAVs have two main subtypes, H1-H16 and N1-N9. These subtypes can be found in various bird species, including ducks, geese, and swans, and their main natural IAV reservoir is in wetland birds. Pigs are an intermediate host that can be infected by both avian and human IAVs and can generate reassortants through genetic mixing. The emergence of pandemic IAVs is a complex process that requires multiple reassortment events. In this study, the authors conducted a study to test whether the tissue tropism of the reassortants generated from co-infected pigs plays a role in the selection of transmissible reassortants. They used feral swine as the animal model and found that the reassortants with certain gene combinations had higher replication rates and tissue tropism in feral swine, indicating a higher chance of transmission.
In-utero sensitisation to schistosome antigens occurs in about half of babies born to women with schistosomiasis during pregnancy. This can lead to immune responses to schistosome antigens that are similar to those seen in adults. However, some babies may not be sensitised and may have acquired tolerance instead. Immune responses established in-utero could influence the immune responses and resistance to infection in early childhood. However, children who are exposed in-utero but do not become sensitised may be more susceptible to infection. In-utero sensitisation to schistosome antigens may also influence the morbidity associated with schistosomiasis. A recent study followed up with children born to women with schistosomiasis during pregnancy at five years old. They measured immune responses to schistosome antigens and regulatory T-cells. The results of this study will help us understand how schistosomiasis and its treatment during pregnancy can influence the immune responses of the children when they are exposed to schistosome antigens.
The main function of macrophages is to clean up waste and fight off infections by engulfing foreign particles and bacteria. There are different ways that macrophages can internalize these particles, which include receptor-mediated phagocytosis, macropinocytosis, and phagocytosis. Mycobacteria, which can cause tuberculosis, can only be internalized by macrophages using receptor-mediated phagocytosis. However, mycobacteria have evolved to survive within the macrophage by preventing the fusion of phagosomes with lysosomes, which would normally destroy them. This can limit the number of mycobacteria that can be destroyed by macrophages, and it can also modulate the macrophage's ability to destroy the mycobacteria. In addition, during an acute infection, macrophages may not be able to internalize enough mycobacteria to effectively curb the infection. As an alternative to receptor-mediated phagocytosis, macrophages can use a non-receptor-mediated method called macropinocytosis to internalize large amounts of cargo. This process is transiently induced by growth factors and certain pathogens, and it allows macrophages to efficiently process infectious material and activate immune responses. The authors found that when macrophages are activated by cytokines, a protein called coronin 1 is phosphorylated and relocated from the cell cortex to cytoplasmic puncta. This induces a switch from receptor-mediated phagocytosis to macropinocytosis, allowing macrophages to internalize more cargo for direct transfer to lysosomes. This suggests that macrophage activation reprograms the endocytic machinery through coronin 1 phosphorylation in order to efficiently eliminate infectious cargo.
Sleeping sickness (HAT) is a disease that is spread by tsetse flies and found only in Africa. It can be fatal if not treated. To control the disease, some communities use traps to kill the tsetse flies. In this study, researchers explored how the local communities in North-West Uganda feel about using traps. They found that the communities were generally supportive of using traps to control the disease, but some people had concerns about the impact of traps on the environment. The researchers provided recommendations for policymakers and practitioners to help make tsetse control operations more effective. The lessons learned from this study can be applied to other vector-borne and neglected tropical diseases.
Recombination is a fundamental biological process in which genetic material is exchanged between homologous chromosomes during meiosis to form haploid gametes from diploid germ cells. The rate of recombination varies among and along chromosomes, providing a unique opportunity to study its evolutionary consequences. Previous population genetic analyses across genomes have shown that recombination imposes profound effects on the evolutionary process, shaping levels of genetic variation, limiting the accumulation of deleterious mutations and enhancing rates of adaptation. However, there are three main limitations in these studies: (1) most genetic maps localize recombination events with little detail; (2) most species' maps are based on two specific strains or compiled from crosses in different laboratory/natural conditions; and (3) the process of meiotic recombination can result in crossing over (CO) or gene conversion (GC), with different evolutionary consequences, but GC is often overlooked. In this study, we generated high-resolution, whole-genome CO and GC maps from eight crosses between natural strains of Drosophila melanogaster. We used whole-genome high-throughput Illumina sequencing and bioinformatic analysis to identify CO and GC events based on changes in parental identity along each D. melanogaster haplotype. We characterized the products of 5,860 female meioses and genotyped an average of 49,000 informative SNPs per fly, for a total of 139 million SNPs. We mapped more than 106,000 recombination events (CO and GC combined) with a median distance to the nearest informative SNP of less than 2 kb. This resolution is almost equivalent to the high-resolution mapping of meiotic recombination in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 50-fold more detailed than current high-resolution whole-genome CO maps in humans, C. elegans, C. briggsae, or D. pseudoobscura, and 15-fold higher than the linkage map in Arabidopsis thaliana based on recombinant inbred lines. Our study provides a valuable resource for understanding the evolutionary consequences of recombination in Drosophila and can inform population genetic analyses across other species.
The paper describes the process of DNA methylation in plants, including in Arabidopsis thaliana. DNA methylation is important for the regulation of gene expression and other processes. In Arabidopsis, DNA methylation is mainly caused by DNA METHYLTRANSFERASE 1 ( MET1 ) at CG sites and by CHROMOMETHYLASE 3 ( CMT3 ) at CHG sites. The DOMAIN REARRANGED METHYLTRANSFERASE 2 ( DRM2 ) is involved in the RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway, which is responsible for the establishment of DNA methylation in Arabidopsis. The DRM2 paralog DRM3 is also required for the full functioning of DRM2. RNA interference (RNAi) is also involved in the process. Two atypical plant-specific multi-subunit DNA-dependent RNA polymerases Pol IV and Pol V are required for the biogenesis of small interfering RNA (siRNA) and long noncoding RNA, respectively. Some subunits are present in one specific RNA polymerase, but some others are shared by Pol IV, Pol V, and/or Pol II. These RNA polymerases are required for the process of de novo DNA methylation.
Neutrophils play an important role in the body's early defense against invading pathogens. They can phagocytose (engulf) pathogens and release toxic chemicals to kill them. Neutrophils can also be removed by professional phagocytes, such as resident macrophages, which helps regulate inflammation. During experimental Leishmania infection, neutrophils can contribute to parasite killing or inhibit the development of Th2 cells. In addition, some Leishmania species can survive inside non-lytic compartments (meaning compartments where they are not destroyed) in neutrophils, potentially using them as a way to gain access to macrophages and establish infection. Neutrophils readily arrive at the site of Leishmania infection within minutes of inoculation. Exposure to Leishmania and whether or not the parasite is internalized by neutrophils can impact their response and, in turn, the parasite's fate.
This paper looks at the effectiveness of a vaccine called Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) in protecting cattle from bovine tuberculosis (bTB). The paper uses mathematical models to explore scenarios for the use of BCG vaccination in Great Britain's current system of tuberculin testing. The paper finds that the specificity of the diagnostic tests used for bTB is an important factor in determining whether BCG vaccination can provide a protective economic benefit at the herd level. The paper also suggests that derogations on the requirements of testing can be used to mitigate the negative effects of DIVA testing.
Trichuriasis is a parasitic disease caused by infection with Trichuris trichiura and affects about 500 million people worldwide, particularly in developing countries. The parasite burrows into the intestinal epithelial cells, making it difficult to control with current anthelmintic drugs. Benzimidazole anthelmintics such as albendazole and mebendazole are commonly used, but they have low efficacy and high resistance rates. A combination of two or more anthelmintics such as albendazole plus ivermectin or albendazole plus oxantel pamoate has been shown to improve the cure rate, but still leaves much to be desired. Recent studies have shown that oxantel pamoate alone can give a single-dose cure rate of 60% at optimal dose. To develop new and effective drugs against Trichuris, researchers have developed several assays to screen compounds for their activity against this parasite. These assays include manual scoring of motility, indirect assessment of viability using the xCELLigence system, assessment of metabolic activity via colorimetric assays, and assessment of motor activity via isothermal microcalorimetry. Many plant materials have been found to have activity against Trichuris, including cysteine proteases from papaya latex. A recent study showed that luteolin, bergapten, and isomyristicin have activity against Trichuris, associated with cuticular damage. The lifecycle of Trichuris has several stages that can be targeted for drug development. These include immobilization or killing of worms inside the host following infection, preventing egg embryonation in the external environment, and reducing the infectivity of embryonated eggs prior to ingestion. T. muris, a laboratory model for trichuriasis, has been used for in vitro and in vivo testing of anthelmintic drug candidates. In this study, researchers discovered a new class of molecules called dihydrobenzoxazepinones that paralyze the adult parasite and reduce the ability of treated eggs to establish infection in the host in vivo. This new class of molecules could be used to develop more effective drugs against Trichuris.
Protein interaction networks have been found to be modular, meaning that they can be divided into sub-networks in which nodes are highly connected to each other within the sub-network and less connected to nodes outside the sub-network. The authors of the original paper examined the extent to which the date and party hubs are modular. Date hubs are proteins with low co-expression with their interaction partners, while party hubs are highly co-expressed with their interaction partners. The authors suggested that party hubs were associated with a single function performed by a group of proteins, while date hubs acted as higher-level connectors between groups with varying functions. However, the validity of the date/party hub distinction has been debated, with different statistical tests suggesting different results. The authors of this paper argue that the bimodal distribution of hubs observed in the original paper is due to a very small number of key hubs, and not to any general property of the entire set of date hubs. The authors also suggest that there is little correlation between expression co-expression and structural roles for hubs, meaning that hubs cannot be classified by the expression co-expression of their interaction partners. They also suggest that the observation of a binary hub classification is highly susceptible to changes in the algorithm used to normalize microarray expression data or in the kernel function used to smooth the histogram of the expression co-expression distribution. The authors also revisited the question of whether the date-party like continuum exists in protein interaction networks, and found that it does not exist in the absence of a bimodal distribution. The authors also take a novel approach to the problem of hub classification, by assigning roles to hubs purely on the basis of network topology, without relying on any additional information. They use the concept of community structure in networks to assign roles to hubs, and find little evidence to support the date/party hypothesis. Finally, the authors suggest that a more nuanced approach to understanding the organization of the interactome involves investigating link (interaction) betweenness centralities, which are measures of the importance of interactions in the network, and their relation to the functional linkage of proteins.
The article presents a method for evaluating the informativeness of genetic data with respect to the underlying transmission tree of an infectious disease. The genetic diversity accumulated along transmission chains depends on various genomic and epidemiological factors, and the article introduces the concept of "transmission divergence" as a measure of this diversity. The authors simulated transmission trees alongside sequence evolution to estimate transmission divergence for ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. They used estimates of mutation rate, genome length, generation time, and basic reproduction number from the literature. The results show that transmission divergence varies greatly among different pathogens, and that accurate reconstruction of transmission trees can be facilitated by pathogens with higher transmission divergence. The article also compares two different approaches to inferring transmission trees from genetic data and illustrates the impact of transmission divergence on the accuracy of these approaches. The article concludes that genetic data can be a valuable tool for reconstructing disease outbreaks, but that limitations in genetic diversity must be taken into account.
Scientists have discovered that in mammals, the X chromosome is 'compensated' so that females have roughly the same number of copies of genes as males. This compensation happens by randomly inactivating one of the two X chromosomes in females, but not in males. Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania have used a special mouse model to study how different genes are affected by this inactivation in different tissues of the body. They used RNA sequencing and other technologies to analyze how genes are expressed in different tissues in females and males. By comparing the data from females and males, they were able to identify genes that are 'escaping' inactivation and are expressed in both copies of the X chromosome. They also analyzed data from a previous study that used a different mouse model to identify genes that are escaping inactivation in the placenta. By comparing the data from these different studies and tissues, they were able to identify common and tissue-specific genes that are escaping inactivation. They also analyzed other data, such as how well the gene is expressed and how well it is packaged in the nucleus, to better understand how these genes are affected by inactivation. Overall, their work provides important information about how different genes are affected by inactivation of the X chromosome in different tissues of the body.
The paper you are referring to is about a group of proteins found in the parasite Plasmodium vivax that causes malaria. These proteins are called cysteine proteases and they help the parasite break down food in the stomach and produce merozoites that destroy red blood cells. There are several different types of cysteine proteases, including FP-2, FP-2B, FP-3, FP-1, VX-2, VX-3, and a new one called VX-4. Each of these proteins has slightly different properties and roles in the parasite's life cycle. VX-4 has an unusual property in that it has different preferences for what kind of food it eats depending on the pH of the environment around it. The authors of the paper studied the properties of VX-4 and determined that a certain amino acid called Glu180 is important for this pH-dependent specificity. They also demonstrated that VX-4 can help with different tasks in the parasite's life cycle, including breaking down hemoglobin, actin, and plasmepsin 4. Overall, the paper describes an important group of proteins that help the parasite survive and cause disease.
This paper presents the first genome-scale metabolic and gene expression model (ME-model) of the acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The ME-model includes all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways, as well as pathways to synthesize RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions. The model accurately predicts the secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability, and reveals how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen. Understanding the role of trace metals in acetogens is particularly important, as metals are crucial for the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, which is the only known CO2-fixing pathway coupled to energy conservation. The ME-model provides a robust, genome-wide approach to define how transition metals affect an organism's functional network, which addresses the need to bridge chemistry and biology in a systematic way. The model has the potential to improve biotechnological outcomes by rationally manipulating the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway and other pathways.
Human genetic differences play a big role in how people look and behave. These differences can happen in the genes that make proteins or the parts of genes that control how they work. These genetic changes can affect things that people inherit, like how tall they are, or make them more likely to get certain diseases.   Scientists have studied these genetic differences using a special type of cell called a "lymphoblastoid cell line" (LCL). LCLs are made from white blood cells and can be kept alive for a long time. They have been really helpful for understanding how genetic changes affect gene expression and how this affects different traits.   However, LCLs are not perfect. They are made in a lab and may have changes in their DNA or the way their DNA works due to being kept alive for a long time. Scientists think that these changes may not match what happens in the body.   To address this problem, scientists have started to look at other types of cells that are more like the ones found in the body. They have looked at cells from the bone and blood samples. They found that genetic changes can affect how different parts of a gene work, which can make different versions of a protein or change how the protein works.   In this study, scientists used cells from bones to look at how genetic changes affect how different parts of a gene work. They found that some genetic changes are the same as the ones they found in LCLs, but others are different. They also found that some genetic changes that affect how a gene works may be important for bone health. They also compared their results to what other scientists found when they looked at brain and blood cells. They found that many of the genetic changes they found in bone cells are the same as the ones they found in brain and blood cells.   Overall, this study shows that genetic changes can affect how different parts of a gene work, and these changes may be important for bone health. It also shows that different types of cells in the body may have different genetic changes. This can help scientists understand how different cells in the body work and how they are related to each other.
In a previous study, researchers found a yeast species called Saccharomyces eubayanus that could not utilize maltotriose, a type of sugar found in beer, even though it was closely related to another yeast species called Saccharomyces pastorianus that could utilize maltotriose. The researchers wanted to understand why S. eubayanus could not utilize maltotriose and whether they could change this characteristic through genetic modification. To do this, they studied the genes related to maltotriose uptake in S. eubayanus and found that it had several genes that were similar to the ones in S. pastorianus, but also had different genes that may have caused S. eubayanus to not be able to utilize maltotriose. The researchers then wanted to see if they could change the genes in S. eubayanus to allow it to utilize maltotriose. To do this, they mutated the genes in the yeast and then grew it in different types of media to see if it could utilize maltotriose. After a long period of growth, the researchers found that some of the mutated yeast strains were able to utilize maltotriose. The researchers then analyzed the genes of these yeast strains to try to understand how the genes had changed and what changes allowed the yeast to utilize maltotriose.
Influenza viruses are a major public health concern, with three main types - A, B, and C - currently circulating. Among them, influenza A(H1N1) and A(H3N2), and type B are the most common. Over time, many variants of influenza virus with distinct antigenic properties have emerged through mutation or reassortment of the gene encoding the viral coat protein hemagglutinin (HA). These antigenic variants have caused varying levels of morbidity and mortality. It is important to predict the mortality burden of a newly emerged influenza virus in order to prepare for epidemics and develop cost-effective control and intervention strategies. However, this is challenging due to limited and biased morbidity and mortality data at the early stage of influenza surveillance. This study developed a method to rapidly estimate the mortality burden of influenza A(H1N1) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A(H1N1) strains based on their HA sequences. The established relationship allows for a direct and positive correlation between the antigenic variation of human influenza virus and the total excess mortality it causes during all periods of its circulation.
Soybean rust is a serious threat to soybean production. The soybean rust fungus can produce many spores, which makes it easy to spread and infect new soybean plants. It can lead to high yield losses. To understand how the soybean rust fungus can cause so much damage, scientists have been studying its genes and proteins. They have found many proteins that are likely to be important in helping the fungus infect soybean plants. One such protein is a small, secreted protein called PpEC23. PpEC23 has a special feature: it has a repeated sequence of ten cysteine amino acids. This sequence is also found in many other rust fungus proteins. Scientists have discovered that PpEC23 can suppress the host plant's immune response to soybean rust. The immune response is triggered by recognizing patterns in the fungus that are similar to those found in other pathogens. PpEC23 can interfere with this recognition process, helping the soybean rust fungus to infect soybean plants more easily. By understanding how PpEC23 works, scientists can develop new ways to protect soybean plants from rust fungus infections.
Chlamydia is a type of bacteria that causes a wide range of diseases in humans, from blindness to urinary and genital tract infections. To survive, Chlamydia must infect cells and use their resources to grow. Chlamydia enters cells by interacting with proteins on the cell surface, including receptors like EphA2, and using a type of secretion system to deliver proteins into the cell. Once inside, Chlamydia takes over the host cell's machinery to replicate and grow. Our study found that EphA2 plays an important role in Chlamydia infection by helping the bacteria enter cells and grow inside them.
Neurons have dendritic trees that allow them to receive and process incoming information. Many studies have focused on the morphology and function of dendrites, but it is not clear how well these mechanisms work in the presence of noisy and variable incoming signals. In this study, the authors propose a simple model of a dendritic tree as an excitable system, where branchlets are activated stochastically. They found that such trees are able to handle large dynamic ranges, making them better at processing signals than other network topologies. The authors believe that active dendrites could enhance the dynamic range of neurons and have unintended consequences like double-sigmoid behavior. The authors suggest that neurons have active dendrites because they need to work with a large stimulus range.
The study proposes an approach to improve the accuracy of predicting regulatory interactions in bacterial cells based on time-series transcriptome data. The authors note that using transcriptome data alone to infer regulatory interactions can lead to spurious results due to differences between mRNA and protein concentrations and differences in the activities of the gene expression machinery across different physiological conditions. The authors propose integrating information on protein concentrations and global physiological effects into the network identification process. They test this approach using a central module in the regulatory network controlling the synthesis of flagella and chemotaxis sensing system in Escherichia coli. The authors find that including information on protein concentrations and global physiological effects leads to a more accurate reconstruction of the regulatory interactions and the ability to make quantitatively predictive models of gene regulation. The authors also provide a practical approach that can be applied to a wide range of network inference problems and experimental techniques.
Zoonotic diseases in humans and animals often occur suddenly as pathogens spill over from wildlife to humans. These events are often linked to specific environments and may be predicted by changes in local environmental conditions. For example, Tucker et al. (2002) found an environmental signal associated with historical outbreaks of Ebola virus in western Africa in 1994–1996. However, despite the assumption that hotspots for zoonotic agents occur in the environment, little is understood about the sporadic occurrence of local reservoir populations or the relationship between host populations and the environment. For example, Glass et al. (2007) reported that only a small portion of the environment in a study site in the southwestern United States was consistently suitable for habitation by deer mice potentially infected with Sin Nombre virus. Suitable habitats typically persisted for only a year or two, and most local reservoir populations were ephemeral. The temporal dynamism of host populations may play a significant role in the risk associated with pathogens such as hantavirus. Rodent-borne zoonoses are likely sensitive to reservoir population size, demographic characteristics, and population persistence; these factors in conjunction with temporal changes in host population distribution are important determinants of pathogen establishment and local intensity of transmission within host populations. The recent Ebola outbreak provided one of the best studied examples of such an emergence. Since the initial outbreak of HPS in 1993, human cases of HPS have occurred sporadically within North America. While the broad geographic region of North America at greatest risk is well known, the specific localities where the disease re-emerges are poorly anticipated. Several longitudinal studies showed that local reservoir populations were often subject to extinction, and the viruses appeared only sporadically, often being absent. Although it is assumed that local persistence is a function of finite population size, host persistence, and transmission dynamics, the details of the local dynamics of rodent hosts have been rarely considered. Currently, 17 hantaviruses that produce pulmonary disease in humans have been identified. One of them is the Choclo virus, which was first detected in 2000. In Panama, Oligoryzomys fulvescens is the reservoir host species. Studies indicate that the primary hantavirus outbreak in the Central-West region of Panama was due to anthropogenic disturbance of the ecosystem associated with intense agricultural activity as well as possible environmental factors. People at most risk were in and around their homes. Similar observations have been reported from Paraguay and Brazil. In the Azuero peninsula, the prevalence of hantavirus IgG antibodies in O. fulvescens may range between 18 and 29%. Spatial-temporal analyses of the O. fulvescens' home range and movement, which may define a potential area for of risk of infection and transmission of Choclo virus, have not been conducted. Here, we examine the pattern, dissemination, and the spatial and temporal distribution of O. fulvescens. In addition, we explore the potential ecological processes that drive the patterns and heterogeneity in this region.
Influenza viruses are responsible for a lot of deaths every year and are a threat to human health. These viruses are rapidly changing and continue to change their antibody-binding sites, which causes changes in their antigenicity. New 'antigenic types' appear regularly and rise to predominance, causing worldwide epidemics. To monitor these changes, the World Health Organization (WHO) runs a global surveillance program. Scientists use a test called hemagglutination inhibition (HI) to measure the ability of an antiserum to inhibit the agglutination of red blood cells by a viral antigen. Scientists then generate an antigenic map, which shows an accurate low-dimensional representation of the antigenic distances between antigen–antiserum pairs. When a novel antigenic type with increasing prevalence is detected, the vaccine composition is updated. Scientists have compared antigenic and genetic maps of influenza A viruses and have found that the antigenic impact of genetic changes varies depending on the nature of the amino acids exchanged and their structural positioning. They have also found that the general principles governing the antigenic evolution of influenza A viruses are well studied, but there are no computational methods for directly determining the antigenic impact of individual amino acid exchanges. Therefore, scientists have developed a new method called 'antigenic trees' that can determine the antigenic impact of individual changes without time- and cost-intensive experiments. They applied this method to HA sequences and serological data from human influenza A (H3N2) viral isolates from 1968 to 2003. They found known antigenic types and the amino acid changes associated with the type transitions. They also found known and novel key HA sites and changes in antigenic evolution.
Papillomaviruses are small, non-enveloped DNA viruses that cause mostly benign lesions, but can also lead to certain types of cancer. One of the most common types of papillomavirus is HPV16. To better understand how HPV16 infects cells, researchers have used virus-like particles (VLPs) and pseudoviruses (PsVs) that mimic the structure and behavior of the authentic HPV16. These particles have been found to enter cells through a process called endocytosis and are transported to a part of the cell called the Golgi complex. However, the exact steps of this process are not well understood. In this study, researchers used a large-scale RNA interference (RNAi) screen to identify host cell factors and processes involved in HPV16 entry. By focusing their follow-up studies on a cluster of genes that suppresses HPV16 infectivity, they found that mitosis (the process of cell division) was crucial for the nuclear entry of HPV16. The researchers discovered that the nuclear envelope of the cell breaks down during mitosis, allowing the HPV16 subviral complex to associate with host cell chromatin aligned on the metaphase plate.
Black Sigatoka disease is a major threat to global banana production caused by the fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis. This disease can only be managed by intensive fungicide applications, which come with enormous environmental impacts. There is an urgent need for scientific discoveries to develop better methods for protecting banana crops. P . fijiensis belongs to the order Capnodiales in the class Dothideomycetes, which is the largest and most diverse class of ascomycete fungi. The genome sequence of Zymoseptoria tritici is the reference for all other Dothideomycetes as it is the only one that has been completely finished. There is a need for new tools and research methods to better understand Black Sigatoka disease and ensure continued production of bananas, which are a staple food for millions of people. The paper discusses the genome sequence of Pseudocercospora fijiensis isolate CIRAD86 and another isolate, CIRAD139, and analyzes in detail the species’ genome structure, content, and function. This information could give clues for global disease management of this devastating banana pathogen.
In this study, the authors aim to identify and study the evolution of binding sites for specific transcription factors (TFs) across different species. While many previous studies have focused on analyzing the conservation of these binding sites, the authors use a birth-death model to infer ancestral states of a given motif without needing to rely on the details of the underlying cross-species sequence alignment. This allows them to identify lineage-specific TF binding sites, which are difficult to study using conservation-based approaches. The authors apply this framework to six TFs, inferring the branch of origin of each individual binding site. They then analyze the properties of these sites, such as the target genes they regulate, their relationship with within-human variation, their overlap with transposable elements, and their cell-type specificity. Overall, the authors' results suggest that this novel method can help identify lineage-specific regulatory elements and provide insights into their role in shaping the variation of gene regulation across species.
In almost all living things, there is a system that makes us sleepy and alert at different times of the day. This system is called the "circadian clock" and it's made up of cells that have a built-in timer. The clock in each cell runs a bit faster or slower than the others, so all the clocks have to talk to each other to stay synchronized. To do this, the main clock in the brain (called the SCN) gets information about the time of day from the eyes. The eyes tell the SCN when it's light outside, and the SCN then tells all the other clocks to keep their rhythms in line. Scientists have found that in some animals, the pineal gland also has its own internal clock that makes it produce a chemical called melatonin at night. In some non-mammalian vertebrates, the pineal gland is even considered to be the main clock. Researchers have discovered that light can directly affect the clock in the pineal gland of these animals, making it produce more melatonin. They have also found that light affects a gene called per2, which is part of the clock mechanism. This gene helps to keep the clock running smoothly and allows it to respond to light. By studying how light affects the clock in the pineal gland, scientists hope to learn more about how light affects our sleep patterns and other circadian rhythms.
Malaria-causing parasites called Plasmodium sporozoites migrate at high speeds through insect and mammalian cells using actin filaments and a protein called coronin. In this study, researchers used genetic engineering to study the role of coronin in sporozoite motility. They generated a series of parasite lines that either lack coronin or contain mutations of important coronin residues. These lines showed that coronin localizes to the sporozoite periphery in a calcium-dependent but actin-independent manner and actively contributes to parasite motility by binding to actin filaments. Importantly, coronin was required for efficient transmission of the parasite from mosquitoes to mice. The study also suggested a switch in signaling pathways linking calcium- and cAMP-mediated signaling during migration and invasion.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by parasites that can cause disfiguring cutaneous sores and deadly visceral leishmaniasis. Currently, treatment options are limited and toxic, with antimony-based drugs being used for over 70 years. Recent studies suggest that miltefosine, another drug used to treat leishmaniasis, may not be as effective as it once was and there have been reported cases of resistance. In response, researchers are looking into other treatment options, such as amphotericin B (AmB) and its liposomal formulations. While liposomal AmB treatments have improved safety and efficacy, they require multiple injections, which can be time-consuming and expensive. To understand how resistance may develop, researchers are looking at the molecular mechanisms of action of AmB. AmB binds to sterols in the cell membrane, such as ergosterol. Cholesterol, the primary sterol in humans, is less avidly bound by AmB because it lacks conjugated 5 (6) -7 (8) double bonds in its ring structure. Researchers have found that resistant Leishmania parasites can lose ergosterol-like sterols and accumulate intermediates that lack these features, leading to changes in the sterol composition of the cell membrane. These changes can be caused by mutations in the sterol biosynthesis enzyme, lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), as well as sterol C24-methyltransferase (SMT) and sterol C5-desaturase. Additionally, loss of function in the miltefosine transporter has also been found to contribute to resistance in a sterol-independent fashion. However, the apparent propensity of the SMT locus for structural variation is of particular concern, as copy number instability in Leishmania genomes can contribute to resistance to antileishmanial drugs.
Perception is thought to arise from a process of active inference, during which the brain uses information from past experiences to build predictive models of likely future occurrences and compares these predictions with incoming sensory evidence. Previous studies have shown that surprising events evoke smaller neural responses than predicted events, suggesting that prediction increases the efficiency of neural encoding. In this study, the authors used forward encoding models to assess the type of information that is modulated in the interaction between attention and prediction, and to test the effect of attention on two informational codes: feature and mismatch information. The mismatch information model proposes that attention increases the gain of prediction errors by modulating the synaptic gain of neurons coding for relevant prediction errors, resulting in a greater selectivity for mismatch information in the neural response to surprising stimuli. The feature information model proposes that attention is more focused on specific stimulus features, which would result in a greater selectivity for feature-specific information in the neural response to surprising stimuli. The study found that surprising stimuli evoke neural responses that contain information related to the difference between predicted and observed stimulus features, consistent with the mismatch information model. The study also found that attention increases the selectivity for mismatch information in the neural response to surprising stimuli, supporting the hypothesis that attention increases the gain of prediction errors.
Trypanosoma brucei is a parasite that affects many animals in sub-Saharan Africa, but only a few can infect humans. These human-infective parasites are divided into two groups: T. b. gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense. T. b. gambiense is the most common form of the parasite, and it is resistant to human serum, making it difficult to treat. Scientists have been studying how these parasites are resistant to human serum, and they have found that two proteins, HPR and APOL1, are involved in the process. HPR helps the parasite to take up a type of protein called TLF-1, which can then be destroyed by APOL1. However, scientists have found that T. b. gambiense can be divided into two groups, and these groups have different properties when it comes to resistance to human serum. Group 1 parasites are less able to take up TLF-1, which may be one reason why they are resistant to human serum. Group 2 parasites are more like T. b. rhodesiense in that they have a variable resistance to human serum, and it is not yet known how they are resistant. Scientists have examined how both TLF-1 and APOL1 affect group 1 and group 2 parasites, and they have found some differences between the two groups. This may help scientists to understand how these parasites are resistant to human serum, which could lead to new treatments.
The current treatment for HIV-1 infection involves highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) which effectively reduces the HIV-1 load to undetectable levels. However, HIV-1 establishes a latent infection in memory CD4+ T cells which evades host immune responses and antiretroviral therapy. HIV-1 latency is a major obstacle in achieving the goal of eradicating the virus from patients. The mechanisms underlying HIV-1 latency involve transcriptional shutdown and the formation of restrictive chromatin at the long terminal repeats (LTR) of the HIV-1 promoter. HIV-1 LTR-driven transcription is silenced in the absence of cellular transcription factors NF-κB and NFAT or in the presence of repressors such as CBF-1 and YY1. Several factors have been shown to trigger HIV-1 latency, but NF-κB alone has the potential to reactivate HIV-1 from its latent state. HIV-1 can be reactivated in an NF-κB-independent way by transcription factor ΔVII-Ets-1. Changes in local chromatin structure and the recruitment of chromatin remodeling factors such as SWI/SNF and histone acetyl transferases such as CBP and p300 are associated with HIV-1 reactivation. Another transcriptional silencing mechanism is CpG methylation of retroviral promoter sequences which inhibits the access of transcription factors to the target DNA. The role of proviral DNA methylation in HIV-1 latency is not clear. We have shown that transcriptional suppression of wild-type HIV-1 promoter is not accompanied by CpG methylation of the 5′ LTR. Our findings suggest that the relationship between the methylation pattern and HIV-1 latency and reactivation may vary depending on the cellular context.
Scientists want to learn more about how genetic and physical traits are connected. To do this, they use the Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP), which is a collection of 192 sequenced lines of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. They found that this fruit fly has a lot of genetic variation, and they want to study the effect of this variation on physical traits. To do this, they need to genotype all types of genetic variations, not just the commonly studied single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). They also want to study how these genetic variations affect gene expression in the adult fruit fly. This study shows that the genetic variation in the fruit fly is connected to its physical traits, which will help scientists understand how physical traits are passed down from one generation to the next.
The article describes how the neural drive to a muscle, which is the collective electrical pulses sent from the motor cortex to the motor neurons that control the muscle, can be measured using electrodes on the surface of the skin. However, the way these signals are measured can affect the accuracy of the measurement. The article describes how rectifying the electrical signals can distort the measurement and make it less accurate. The article also suggests a way to overcome this distortion by using a different method of measurement.
Aluminum is harmful to plant roots, especially in acidic soil with a pH of 5 or less. It becomes soluble as Al3+ ions, which can stunt root growth in most plants. The root tip of the plant, specifically the distal portion of the root-apex transition zone, is the most sensitive to Al stress. Aluminum causes the production of reactive oxygen species, which can lead to root growth inhibition. The plant hormone auxin is involved in many plant growth and development processes, and it is mainly synthesized through a tryptophan-dependent pathway. The YUCCA family of flavin-containing mono-oxygenases and the TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS (TAA) family of aminotransferases are important enzymes in this pathway. TAA enzymes catalyze the conversion of tryptophan to indole-3-pyruvate, while YUCs are involved in the conversion of indole-3-pyruvate to indole-3-acetic acid, a rate-limiting step in the IPyA pathway. Auxin biosynthesis mediates many plant growth and development responses, and local auxin biosynthesis mediated plant growth and development are regulated by tissue or cellular specific transcription factors such as AP2 PLETORA transcription factors, which regulate localized auxin synthesis controlled by YUCs. Phytohormones such as auxin and ethylene play critical roles in modulating root growth in response to Al stress. Blocking auxin signaling with the auxin antagonist PEO-IAA or in auxin related mutants such as slr-1 and arf10 arf16 markedly enhances root growth inhibition in response to Al stress. Exposure of Arabidopsis roots to Al stress enhances auxin signaling in the root-apex transition zone, which is dependent on TAA1-regulated auxin synthesis. The results of this study show that YUCCA controls Al-inhibited primary root growth through the regulation of local auxin biosynthesis in the root-apex transition zone in Arabidopsis thaliana. EIN3 and PIF4 are transcriptional activators for YUC5/8/9 in this process.
This study examined how natural killer (NK) cells recognize and kill virus-infected cells. The study found that the molecular basis of ligand recognition for activating NK cell receptors is not well understood. However, inhibitory NK cell receptors selectively bind to specific sequences on MHC class I molecules. These inhibitory receptors usually suppress NK cell activation and prevent them from killing healthy cells. However, when the interaction between inhibitory receptors and MHC class I molecules is disrupted, NK cells can degranulate and kill the infected cell. Polymorphic differences in genes that encode NK cell and MHC class I receptors can influence the course of viral infections. In HIV-1 infections, for example, certain types of NK cells can suppress viral replication in autologous CD4+ T cells. The study found that changes in the peptides presented by MHC class I molecules can stabilize or disrupt interactions with inhibitory NK cell receptors. This creates an opportunity for immune escape as viruses may acquire changes in their epitopes to bind more strongly to inhibitory NK cell receptors. The study also found that certain SIV peptides bound to MHC class I molecules could inhibit the killing of virus-infected cells by NK cells. This suggests that HIV-1 and SIV may acquire changes in their epitopes to bind more strongly to inhibitory NK cell receptors, which could impair their elimination by NK cells.
This study investigates the adaptation of Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) to heme-iron limitation and its impact on infection severity. NTHI is a heme auxotroph, meaning it cannot produce heme and must obtain it from the environment. The study demonstrates that transient heme-iron restriction leads to a single nucleotide polymorphism in a gene called icc, which encodes a phosphodiesterase that breaks down cAMP. This mutation results in a significant shift in infection kinetics, with decreased middle ear fluid and increased intracellular bacterial communities (IBCs) early during infection. These findings suggest that NTHI intracellular populations may serve as a reservoir for recurrent and chronic infections associated with OM.
Melioidosis is a rare but fatal disease caused by a bacterium called Burkholderia pseudomallei. This bacterium lives in soil and water and can cause melioidosis in humans when it is inhaled or ingested. Melioidosis can cause a variety of symptoms, including pneumonia, abscesses, and septicemia. Some studies have shown that iron may play a role in melioidosis, as high levels of iron in soil and water can increase the growth of the bacterium, and high levels of iron in the body may increase the risk of getting melioidosis. The bacterium has also been shown to produce a special type of iron-grabbing molecule, called a siderophore, which helps it get iron from its environment. Macrophages, which are a type of immune cell, play a role in controlling iron homeostasis, or the balance of iron in the body. It is not known how iron affects the course of melioidosis, so researchers studied how infection with B. pseudomallei changes the way that macrophages handle iron. They found that the bacterium was able to get iron from macrophages and that this made it easier for the bacterium to grow and cause disease. They also found that the bacterium produced a special protein that helped it get even more iron from macrophages. These findings suggest that changes in iron homeostasis may play a role in the development of melioidosis, and that controlling iron may be a way to treat the disease.
Collective motions are essential for the function of proteins. They are involved in various biological processes, including enzyme catalysis, channel gating, and signal transduction. There are various methods for studying collective motions in proteins, including nuclear magnetic resonance, X-ray crystallography, single-molecule fluorescence, and electron-transfer measurements. In addition to experimental methods, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and principal component analysis (PCA) are commonly used to analyze collective motions in proteins. While PCA and NMA identify large-scale and low-frequency modes, respectively, they do not necessarily yield motions directly related to protein function. We propose a novel analysis technique called 'functional mode analysis' (FMA) to identify collective motions related to a specific protein function. FMA requires a set of protein structures and a 'functional quantity' that can be expressed as a single number for each input structure. The structures typically derive from an MD simulation, but a large set of X-ray or NMR structures is also suitable. The chosen functional quantity can be quite general and could correspond to some geometric, electrostatic, or chemical observable or any other variable that might be relevant to the function of the protein. The FMA seeks the collective protein motion that is maximally related to the functional quantity. The two motions of interest are the 'maximally correlated motion' (MCM) and the 'ensemble-weighted MCM' (ewMCM). The MCM displays the largest correlation to the functional quantity and is unaffected by the energy landscape of the protein. The ewMCM is the physical motion that accomplishes substantial deviations in the functional quantity, in accordance with the protein's energy landscape. Depending on the question addressed, the MCM or ewMCM (or both) can provide insight into the relation between function and motion. Therefore, both motions are considered in the proposed framework. We provide an example of FMA in detecting functionally relevant collective motions in a polyalanine helix, T4 lysozyme, Trp-cage, and leucine-binding protein. These examples illustrate the use of FMA in detecting functionally relevant collective motions.
Euglenids, a type of unicellular green algae, have unique nuclear genes containing introns that are not found in other eukaryotes. These nonconventional introns are not removed in the order they appear in the pre-mRNA. Instead, removal is often delayed until after other introns are spliced out. In addition, some euglenid introns form a stable secondary structure and may originate from mobile genetic elements. A study of two euglenid genes found that the order of intron removal varied depending on the type of intron and the presence of intermediate introns. The study used PacBio SMRT technology to generate long NGS reads, which allowed for analysis of intermediate splicing products.
Coxsackieviruses (CV) are a type of virus that often cause a mild infection with symptoms like fever, rash, and upper-respiratory complications. While some people get a heart condition called myocarditis from CV infections, this usually happens rarely (in only about 5% of cases). However, some people who have had CVB3 infections as children have been found to have higher risks of developing a condition called dilated cardiomyopathy later in life. This is a condition where the heart muscle becomes weakened and enlarged, which can lead to heart failure. CVB3 infections may also harm a type of cell in the heart called cardiac progenitor cells (CPCs), which are responsible for helping the heart grow and heal. This could increase the risk of heart disease later in life.
This study examines the role of the NLRC4 inflammasome in recognizing and eliminating the bacterial pathogen Burkholderia pseudomallei, which causes the disease melioidosis. The study found that NLRC4 recognizes the bacterial flagellin FliC, the T3SS inner rod protein BsaK, and the T3SS effector protein BopE in infected macrophages. The NLRC4 inflammasome then activates caspase-1, which in turn triggers pyroptosis (a type of cell death) and the release of the inflammatory cytokine IL-1β. This study also found that NLRC4 plays a crucial role in controlling B. pseudomallei infection in macrophages and in vivo. This suggests that targeting the NLRC4 inflammasome may be a promising approach for developing new treatments for melioidosis.
Pollen tube growth is an important process for fertilization in plants. The pollen tubes grow from pollen grains towards the egg cells. The process of pollen tube growth starts when the pollen grain lands on the stigma, the sticky surface of the flower. The pollen grain then germinates and grows as a tube towards the ovary. The growth of the pollen tube is influenced by the stigma, which releases chemicals that are important for the pollen to grow. In Arabidopsis, a plant that is commonly used for research, a mutant has been found that affects the pollen tube growth. This mutant is called kinβγ and has a defect in the pollen coat, which is a substance on the surface of the pollen grain that is important for the pollen to stick to the stigma. The kinβγ mutant also has a defect in the way that the pollen grain grows, which results in the pollen tube being unable to reach the egg cells. The scientists found that the defect in the kinβγ mutant was caused by a change in the amount of a chemical that is made in the pollen grain. This chemical is important for the pollen tube to grow, and without it, the pollen tube cannot reach the egg cells. This study provides new insights into the process of pollen tube growth and the important role that the stigma plays in this process.
Ribonuclease III (RNase III) is a protein that helps process ribonucleic acids (RNA) in bacteria and eukaryotes. It is important for RNA processing in both systems. RNase III has a key role in regulating antisense RNA, which is RNA that is transcribed from the opposite strand of a gene. In bacteria, RNase III helps remove unnecessary RNA molecules and may also play a role in gene regulation. In eukaryotes, RNase III helps produce microRNAs and is also involved in the process of RNA interference. A recent study found that RNase III has an important role in removing unnecessary RNA molecules in Staphylococcus aureus. The enzyme is essential in Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli, but not in some other bacteria and archaea. The function of RNase III in removing unnecessary RNA may help bacteria and eukaryotes cope with environmental stress and maintain their gene expression patterns.
This paper is about a parasite that causes a disease called filariasis. It is a disease that affects people around the world and is caused by tiny worms that live inside people. The worms can make people sick and cause swelling in their legs and genitals. The worms are transmitted through mosquitoes, which bite infected people and then bite other people, passing the worms to them. Scientists have been trying to find a way to get rid of the worms, and they have been using medicine to try to kill them. But the medicine doesn't always work, so scientists are looking for new ways to get rid of the worms. They have found that the worms make tiny particles called vesicles, and they think that these vesicles might be a way for the worms to communicate with the people they live inside. The vesicles might also be a way for the worms to make people sick. Scientists have found that the worms make vesicles at all stages of their life, and they have found that these vesicles are taken up by the people the worms live inside. They have also found that the vesicles have molecules in them that might make people sick. These molecules might be a way for the worms to make people sick. Scientists also found that the worms make fewer vesicles when they are treated with a medicine called ivermectin. They think that this medicine might work by stopping the worms from making vesicles.
Scabies is a skin condition caused by a mite infestation, and it leads to itching, redness, and pain. It is highly contagious and can spread easily between family members, sexual partners, and people living in close quarters. It is most common in hot and humid climates and affects young children the most. Impetigo is a bacterial skin infection that can occur as a result of scabies. It can cause complications such as abscesses, cellulitis, and septicemia. Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus are the main bacteria responsible for impetigo. Impetigo can also cause other health problems, such as acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, chronic kidney disease, acute rheumatic fever, and rheumatic heart disease. These conditions can lead to significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. Although scabies and impetigo are common in the Pacific region, there is limited research on the prevalence and clinical features of these conditions in the Solomon Islands. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of scabies and impetigo in remote communities in the Western Province of the Solomon Islands and to investigate the clinical characteristics and epidemiologic associations of these conditions in this region.
Scientists have discovered that new brain cells are made in the adult hippocampus, which is a part of the brain important for learning, memory, and emotional regulation. However, scientists are still unsure what these new cells do. In this study, researchers used genetic techniques to examine whether the new cells have a specific function. They used a group of mice that were made by breeding eight different types of mice. These mice are unique because they have many genetic differences, and researchers can use these differences to find out how they affect specific behaviors and traits. The researchers examined several traits in these mice, including behaviors that are thought to be related to the new cells, such as how the mice eat and respond to fear. They found that these traits are related to the number of new cells in the hippocampus. This study shows that the new cells may have a role in regulating these behaviors.
Trypanosoma cruzi is a type of parasite that causes Chagas disease. Chagas disease is the most common cause of heart failure among young adults in certain parts of South and Central America. This disease has become a growing health issue in the United States and Europe due to migration of Latin Americans. There are currently no vaccines available for Chagas disease. Previous research has identified certain proteins from T. cruzi that are capable of eliciting a protective immune response in mice. In this study, researchers tested the protective efficacy of a DNA-prime/protein-boost vaccine called TcVac2. This vaccine contains certain proteins that were identified by a computational/bioinformatic analysis of T. cruzi's DNA. The researchers found that TcVac2 was effective in preventing acute parasitemia and chronic parasite persistence and immunopathology in chagasic mice. This suggests that TcVac2 could be an effective vaccine for preventing Chagas disease.
The article discusses the limitations of current disease risk assessment methods, which use a small number of validated genetic markers for prediction. The authors argue that the failure of these methods is due to the fact that most disease risk is still unknown and that more genetic markers need to be validated before they can be used for prediction. The article also highlights the importance of using machine learning algorithms to develop more accurate disease risk assessment methods. The authors argue that their approach can optimize prediction modeling and take advantage of potential interactions between markers to achieve the best binary predictive power. They use type 1 diabetes (T1D) as an example to demonstrate their approach. The article concludes that the authors' approach is a promising way to develop more accurate disease risk assessment methods in the future.
Memory CD8+ T cells are a type of immune cell that survive an infection and provide protection against future infections. These cells can be found in the bloodstream or in specific tissues, such as the skin. Memory CD8+ T cells can be divided into two main groups: tissue-resident memory (TRM) cells that remain in the tissue, and circulating memory cells that are found in the bloodstream. In this study, researchers examined the different groups of memory CD8+ T cells and their functions following a secondary infection with a virus. They found that circulating memory cells traffic into the skin to fight the infection and that only a subset of these cells become long-term residents in the skin. The researchers also found that the cells require a special kind of cytolytic function to provide protection against the virus.
In neurons, proteins that need to reach the surface of the axon (the long part of the neuron that transmits signals) or the dendrites (the branching parts of the neuron that receive signals) are transported through different pathways. Axonal proteins travel through the axon to the distal axon, where they are then transported back to the soma (the main body of the neuron). Dendritic proteins are transported directly to the soma. The transport of both axonal and dendritic proteins is mediated by kinesin motors. However, the targeting of dendritic proteins cannot be explained by the intrinsic properties of dendritic kinesins. Instead, myosin motors might participate in the targeting of axonal proteins. Myosin VI is a motor that moves towards the pointed (or minus) end of actin filaments and plays a role in endocytosis. Myosin VI associates with clathrin-coated vesicles and proteins that mediate endocytosis and plays a prominent role in the endocytosis of at least two neuronal proteins. In this study, we found that Myosin VI is involved in the concentration of proteins at the axonal surface of neurons in dissociated cultures. Myosin VI enhances dendrite-specific endocytosis and might promote the direct trafficking of proteins to the axon. Thus, myosin motors contribute to the enrichment of proteins at the plasma membranes of the appropriate polar compartments of neurons, which is necessary for proper electrical signaling.
Sex determination is the process by which animals decide if they will develop as male or female. There are two main ways that sex is determined: genetically or environmentally. Genetic sex determination (GSD) is when sex is determined by genes. Environmental sex determination (ESD) is when sex is determined by environmental cues such as temperature. Daphnia magna is a type of crustacean that can switch between sexual and asexual reproduction depending on the environment. JHA, a type of hormone, can be used to induce male production in D. magna, making it an ideal model for studying ESD. By studying the function of two Dsx genes in D. magna, researchers have found that Dsx plays a critical role in determining sexual dimorphism in D. magna. This supports the hypothesis that genetic and environmental sex determination are similar at their most fundamental level.
Genital herpes is a common and often painful sexually transmitted infection (STI) that affects about half a billion people worldwide [1]. It is especially prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa [2] and can increase the risk of HIV-1 infection [3-7]. Genital herpes can be very upsetting for many people, as it can cause genital lesions and be transmitted to sexual partners [8-10]. There is currently no vaccine available to protect against genital herpes, and researchers are trying to create one. A vaccine that researchers are working on contains three parts of the virus that are involved in the infection process [11]. The vaccine has shown promise in some studies [13, 14], but there is still a need for a vaccine that can protect against both genital lesions and subclinical infections. Researchers are currently testing a vaccine that they hope will be able to do this.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) is a popular way to study how proteins interact with DNA. When doing this kind of study, researchers often get a lot of data, but some of the data can match multiple places in the genome (multi-reads). This can cause problems when trying to figure out where the protein-DNA interaction is actually happening. A lot of effort has been made to create tools that can solve this problem, but the standard practice is to either only use data from the unique locations or to use a conservative set of the data randomly. This approach can miss important information from regions of the genome that have repeating sequences. In this study, the authors came up with a new way to allocate multi-reads using information from a related technique called DNase-seq. This technique helps identify active cis-regulatory elements across the genome. The authors tested their new approach on a large collection of ChIP-seq datasets and found that it performed much better than the previous methods. They also found that protein-DNA interaction sites in repetitive regions of the genome share similar characteristics with the ones identified by uniquely mapping reads. This is an important finding, as repetitive regions of the genome are often underrepresented in ChIP-seq studies. Overall, this study shows that the new approach can help us better understand how proteins interact with DNA in repetitive regions of the genome.
This study investigates the relationship between schistosomiasis, a parasitic worm infection acquired by contact with contaminated fresh water, and the risk of HIV-1 infection. The study was conducted in women because the eggs of the worms cause inflammation and ulceration in the female genital tract and have been hypothesized to facilitate HIV-1 viral entry following sexual exposure. The study found that women with Schistosoma haematobium infection were four times more likely to be HIV-1-infected than women without schistosomiasis, and women with Schistosoma mansoni were six times more likely. The study also suggests that schistosome infection may alter mucosal integrity and increase susceptibility to trans-mucosal HIV infection. Further studies should investigate whether schistosome infection affects HIV-1 viral load at the time of HIV-1 seroconversion.
The article discusses the rDNA, a section of the human genome that encodes ribosomal RNA (rRNA), which is used to build ribosomes. The rDNA is located on five different regions of human acrocentric chromosomes and is made up of several copies of the same gene, referred to as 45S. The number of copies of 45S varies in each human genome and can change in different developmental and disease contexts. The article explains how the rDNA is important for protein synthesis and how the copy number of rDNA can change in response to environmental factors. It also highlights the role of the rDNA in various extra-ribosome functions, including regulating gene expression, chromosome organization, and titrating chromatin factors. The article concludes that modulation of rDNA copy number has the potential to regulate a wide range of cellular processes.
To understand how bacteria grow and behave in an animal's body during an infection, we need to study the dynamics of different subpopulations of bacteria within that animal. This is because the infection process is not the same in all parts of the body and different subpopulations of bacteria may be growing or dying at different rates. In this study, we used a special group of bacteria called Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium that infects mice. These bacteria are genetically similar but we tagged them with unique markers so that we could tell them apart. We then infected mice with a mixture of these tagged bacteria and monitored how each subpopulation grew or declined over time in different parts of the body. We found that not all subpopulations of bacteria grew at the same rate, and that the immune response could affect how quickly each subpopulation grew or declined. By studying these dynamics, we can better understand how bacteria behave during an infection. This information can help us develop better treatments and interventions to combat bacterial infections.
The human visual system needs to solve the problem of representing the three-dimensional (3D) world from the two-dimensional (2D) retinal input. This is a fundamental challenge that arises from the nature of our two eyes, each of which perceives a slightly different perspective of the same 3D scene. Motion direction and speed in 3D space can be described using a 3D motion vector in a cartesian coordinate system. To estimate such a vector from binocular input, we need to use additional constraints to disambiguate local velocity constraints and derive a velocity estimate. The current study investigates two default strategies of perceived 3D motion when local motion direction is ambiguous.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a type of bacteria that can cause infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. To survive and cause damage, P. aeruginosa produces a substance called alginate. This substance is made of long chains of sugar molecules that are joined together by chemical bonds. The sugar molecules in alginate can be modified by being acetylated, or having acetyl groups added to them. There are three different types of acetylated sugars that can be produced by P. aeruginosa: Pel, Psl, and alginate. Alginate is the most important type because it helps P. aeruginosa to survive and cause damage. Acetylated alginate is harder to be recognized and cleared by the host immune system than non-acetylated alginate. To acetylate alginate, P. aeruginosa uses four different proteins: AlgF, AlgI, AlgJ, and AlgX. AlgF is not known to have a catalytic domain and its function is unknown. AlgI is thought to be a type of enzyme that can move things from one place to another. AlgJ and AlgX are both enzymes that can add acetyl groups to the sugar molecules in alginate. In this study, the researchers determined the structure of AlgJ75–370 and found that it has a specific structure that allows it to add acetyl groups to the sugar molecules in alginate. They also found that AlgJ75–370 works with AlgX to add acetyl groups to the sugar molecules in alginate. Overall, this study shows how P. aeruginosa uses different proteins to modify alginate and how this modification helps the bacteria to survive and cause damage.
Candida albicans is a fungus that lives in our mouths, genitals, and stomachs. It can cause infections in these places and even spread to our bloodstream, leading to serious illnesses. One way to treat these infections is with antifungal drugs. However, some antifungal drugs are not effective against C. albicans because it can hide from the drugs by forming a protective layer on its surface. This protective layer is made of a substance called β(1,3)-glucan, which is a kind of sugar found in the cell walls of fungi. A protein called Dectin-1 helps the immune system recognize when fungi like C. albicans are present and mount an attack. However, the fungus can hide from Dectin-1 by making β(1,3)-glucan less detectable. A protein called Cho1 helps the fungus make this protective layer, and mutations in the gene for Cho1 make the protective layer less effective. This makes it easier for the immune system to detect the fungus and mount an attack. The immune system's response to the fungus is stronger when the protective layer is less effective.
The study aimed to determine genetic risk factors for dementia by analyzing the neuropathologic features of Alzheimer's disease, vascular brain injury, and Lewy body disease in individuals with and without dementia. The study used genome-wide data from 4,914 individuals and focused on three different approaches to the neuropathologic data: using a clinico-pathologic definition of AD dementia or controls, focusing on the core neuropathologic features of AD, and including commonly co-morbid neuropathologic features observed in older individuals with dementia. The study found genetic risk loci associated with specific neuropathologic features and identified novel genetic variants associated with dementia.
Urea has been used for decades to study protein folding and unfolding, but it's not clear why it causes proteins to unfold. The dominant theory is that urea interacts more strongly with exposed residues than water. However, it's not clear how these interactions happen. Some scientists suggest that urea interacts with exposed protein residues mostly through electrostatic forces, like hydrogen bonds. Other scientists claim that dispersion interactions, which are caused by the temporary dipole moments of atoms, are more important. It's also not clear whether the main destabilizing effect of urea is on the protein's backbone or side chains. In a recent study, we used computer simulations and direct measurements to study how urea affects the unfolded state of the protein ubiquitin. We found that urea stabilizes flexible, over-extended conformations of the protein that are unlikely to be sampled in the unfolded state of proteins in water. These over-extended conformations have exposed hydrophobic surfaces and are more attracted to urea molecules than the native globular state due to London dispersion interactions between the apolar side chains and urea molecules in the protein's first solvation shell. We believe that these results help explain how urea affects the thermodynamics of the folded/unfolded equilibrium, but they don't tell us whether urea actively induces protein unfolding or just stabilizes the unfolded state. To understand this, we need to study the first stages of unfolding when the protein structure is still close to the native conformation, and when internal residues are not fully exposed. We used 30 different proteins, which are representative of all protein folds, and several popular force-fields to perform 1-microsecond-long atomistic simulations of unfolding. Our results show that urea destabilizes folded states of proteins by interfering with London dispersion interactions between the apolar side chains and the solvent. We also found that urea destabilizes protein side chains more than the protein backbone. This suggests that urea stabilizes the unfolded state by binding to unfolded conformations rather than actively inducing unfolding.
Dengue disease is a common illness in Colombia caused by a virus spread by mosquitoes. It is important to report cases of dengue to the SIVIGILA system, which tracks cases of dengue disease. Serological samples are taken from patients to monitor the types of dengue viruses that are circulating. To track dengue disease in Colombia, data is collected from individual cases and from local and national sources. The data collected is used to inform research and policies to prevent dengue disease. The information provided in this review is important for understanding the prevalence of dengue disease in Colombia.
Tegumentary leishmaniasis (TL) is a disease that causes skin and mucosal tissue damage, and it is transmitted by phlebotomine sandflies. This disease can affect people differently and can even be life-threatening. It is estimated that 1 million people worldwide are affected by TL annually. In many tropical and temperate regions where TL occurs, people often have more than one disease at the same time, but we don't know much about the epidemiology of these coinfections. The immune response of the human host to Leishmania infection can be altered by other pathogens, which can affect the outcome of the disease and the response to treatment. HIV is the most studied coinfection, and it increases the risk of severe and disseminated TL and treatment failure. However, Leishmania infection can also affect HIV progression. The interactions between TL and other infections have not been thoroughly studied before, and we need more research to understand how these coinfections affect people's health.
This study focused on the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in rats, which is a region of the genome responsible for presenting antigens to the immune system. The rat MHC is located on chromosome 20 and has been sequenced in several rat strains. In this study, the authors used genetic mapping techniques to identify regions of the rat MHC that contribute to variation in MHC expression and CD4 to CD8 T cell ratio. They found that variation in the expression of the Tap2 gene, which is involved in antigen processing, contributed to the variation in MHC expression. Additionally, they identified a new type of class-I modification that affected the expression of TAP-B linked RT1-A molecules. The authors also showed that polymorphisms in Tap2 significantly contributed to CD8 lineage commitment by altering the class-I peptide repertoire on antigen presenting cells in the thymus. Overall, this study highlights the importance of the MHC in the rat immune system and provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying MHC expression and CD4 to CD8 T cell ratio variation.
Chagas disease is a potentially life-threatening illness caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi. Most people who have the disease don't have any symptoms or only have mild symptoms, such as fever, headache, muscle pain, and difficulty breathing. However, the parasites can hide in the heart and digestive muscles, and up to 30% of people develop cardiac problems such as heart failure or sudden death. The disease can also affect the digestive system, the nerves, or both. The parasites are mainly transmitted by a bug called the kissing bug, which is found in 21 countries in Latin America. However, the parasites can also be transmitted through blood transfusions, organ transplants, and from mother to child. Chagas disease is a problem in non-endemic countries like Spain because of population migration. Spain has one of the highest populations of migrants from Latin America, and a study found that 2.3-3.8% of this population had Chagas disease. There are rules in place in Spain to screen pregnant women from Latin American countries for Chagas disease, but not all regions have these rules, and there is no surveillance system for the disease. This study looked at hospitalizations for Chagas disease in Spain between 1997 and 2011, and found that the number of hospitalizations has increased over time, and that the most common symptoms are cardiac problems. The disease is most common in the southern and eastern parts of Spain.
Psoriasis is a complex genetic disease that affects the skin. Different parts of the world have different levels of psoriasis, and it is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. While scientists have identified some genetic factors that are associated with psoriasis, they have not been able to determine the exact genetic causes of the disease. To better understand the genetic basis of psoriasis, researchers have been using a variety of methods to analyze genetic data. One of these methods is called BlocBuster, which looks at patterns of genetic variants in individuals with and without psoriasis. This method has been able to identify a new pattern of genetic variants that are associated with psoriasis. This new pattern has been confirmed through a variety of computational methods, and it has the potential to help scientists better understand the genetic basis of psoriasis.
This study looks at three brain malformations that happen when parts of the brain don't develop properly: agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC), cerebellar hypoplasia (CBLH), and polymicrogyria (PMG). These malformations can cause significant developmental problems and seizures. The study used genetic testing to look for large changes in the DNA (CNVs) in 545 people with one or more of these malformations and in 2,349 healthy people. The researchers expected to find more CNVs in the patients than in the healthy people and that many of the CNVs would be new or previously unknown. They also expected to find many small CNVs that couldn't be seen with a microscope. The results showed that the patients did have more CNVs than the healthy people, but most of the CNVs were already known and many were small. The study also found that the patients had a higher risk of having large, likely harmful CNVs, including some that were new or previously unknown. This study provides important information about the genetic causes of these brain malformations, which can help doctors better understand and treat them.
This study explores the role of Yki in the regeneration process of the planarian, Schmidtea mediterranea, which is able to regrow its limbs and other tissues after amputation. It shows that the proliferation and injury response processes are hyper-activated and prolonged in yki (RNAi) animals, but that stem cells do not block differentiation and actually produce increased numbers of epidermal and muscle cells. Using RNA-deep sequencing, the study finds that yki (RNAi) regenerates have significantly up-regulated known and novel wound-induced genes, many of which have known roles in patterning. Additionally, yki (RNAi) animals fail to maintain proper size and scaling of the brain, midline, and gut during morphallaxis and have altered kinetics of homeostatic eye replacement. Overall, this study demonstrates that Yki is a highly pleiotropic yet critical regulator of multiple early wound response processes in planarians.
This paper describes the role of exosomes in the pathogenesis of EV71, a virus that causes hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD). The authors found that EV71 infection leads to increased exosome secretion, and that these exosomes carry both viral RNA and cellular miRNA. In particular, the authors found that miR-146a was preferentially co-packaged with viral RNA in exosomes and that this exosomal miRNA suppressed type I interferon expression in the recipient cell, thus facilitating viral replication. The authors also found that IFN-stimulated gene factors and BST-2/tetherin were involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion. Finally, the authors found that exosome-containing viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation compared to free virus particles.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a disorder that affects the function of nerve cells in the brain. It is characterized by tremors, stiffness, and difficulty moving. PD is more common in older adults and is caused by the loss of specialized nerve cells called dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Recent research has identified two genes that cause early-onset autosomal recessive PD: PINK1 and parkin. PINK1 is a protein that helps maintain the structure of the mitochondria, which are small organelles within nerve cells that produce energy. Parkin is a protein that helps remove damaged or old mitochondria from nerve cells. Research has shown that PINK1 helps parkin remove damaged mitochondria from nerve cells, which improves the function of these nerve cells. However, the exact way that PINK1 helps parkin remove damaged mitochondria is not fully understood. In this study, researchers have identified a new protein called phosphoglycerate mutase 5 (PGAM5) that helps parkin remove damaged mitochondria. Loss of PGAM5 function improves mitochondrial function when PINK1 is not working properly. This new finding could lead to new treatments for PD.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a skin disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium ulcerans (M. ulcerans). BU affects people living in West African rural communities but has also been reported in America, Australia, and Asia. The disease is caused by mycolactone, a toxic compound produced by M. ulcerans. Mycolactone is highly cytotoxic and has immunosuppressive properties, meaning it can suppress the immune system's response to infection. Despite this, people living in BU-endemic regions often develop immune responses to M. ulcerans, even if they don't develop the disease. The innate immune system (the body's first line of defense) is activated at the site of infection, and clearance of the infection by the immune system is possible before large clusters of mycolactone-producing bacteria have formed. However, the protective effect of IFNγ (a type of cytokine produced by TH1 cells) on host immune defense against M. ulcerans is impaired by the suppression of IFNγ production caused by mycolactone. This means that people who are infected with M. ulcerans but do not develop the disease may still be at risk of developing the disease in the future if their immune response is suppressed by mycolactone.
The authors present a model of mitochondrial respiration that explains why cells produce more harmful chemicals called "reactive oxygen species" when they switch from low to high oxygen levels. This can cause damage to cells and may contribute to heart disease and other conditions. The authors suggest that certain chemicals, like succinate, can trigger this harmful effect. They also suggest that reducing oxygen levels can make cells more prone to this damage. To test their model, the authors performed experiments on cells and found that they behaved in a way that matched the model's predictions. This suggests that the model is correct and could be used to develop new treatments for diseases caused by damage from reactive oxygen species.
In this paper, the authors use a mathematical modeling approach called "gene circuits" to investigate the role of the gap gene Hb in the regulation of pattern formation during the development of Drosophila embryos. The gene circuit method is a data-driven approach that uses quantitative and spatial gene expression data to extract regulatory information from complex networks of interacting genes. The authors collected such data by staining Drosophila embryos with a specific antibody against the Hb protein and imaging them using a confocal laser scanning microscope. They then segmented the images to obtain numerical tables of average protein concentrations per nucleus, sorted the embryos into time classes, and averaged the data across all embryos stained for Hb at a given time point. This data was combined with equivalent data for other gap genes from a database and used to simulate the dynamics of gap gene expression using gene circuit models. The models consist of a row of dividing nuclei along the anterior-posterior axis of the embryo, in which gap proteins are synthesized and decay within each nucleus and diffuse between neighboring nuclei that are not yet separated by cell membranes at the blastoderm stage. The authors use the models to investigate the role of Hb in the regulation of gap gene expression, focusing on its role in the establishment and subsequent shift of the posterior hb domain. They found that the posterior hb domain shifts over time due to an asymmetric cascade of cross-repressive interactions between gap genes with overlapping expression domains. The authors used the gene circuit method to investigate the role of Hb in this cascade and found that Hb plays a central role in the initiation and regulation of gap domain shifts. They also used the models to investigate the regulatory mechanism by which the posterior hb domain shifts over time and found that Hb represses hb in the posterior region of the embryo. The authors conclude that their work provides a more detailed and quantitative understanding of the role of Hb in the regulation of pattern formation during the development of Drosophila embryos.
Brucellosis is a disease that affects many different animal species, including cattle, and can also affect humans. It is caused by bacteria that can lead to abortions, weak newborn calves, infertility, and other issues in cattle. Vaccines have been developed to help control this disease, but they have some limitations. Some vaccines can cause abortions and interfere with diagnosis, while others are resistant to antibiotics and can infect humans. For these reasons, researchers are looking for better ways to treat and prevent brucellosis, such as using bacteriophages. These are viruses that attack bacteria and are able to reproduce quickly and effectively in them, killing the bacteria. The use of bacteriophages in brucellosis treatment has shown promising results, and researchers are now testing them in adult cattle and using a specific type of RNA in the blood as a biomarker to monitor the treatment.
A specific role of CDK2 in human cells is to coordinate DNA damage response with cell division. CDK2 phosphorylates the repair protein Nbs1 to promote the DNA damage response pathway choice. Treatment with an allele-specific inhibitor of Cdk2 activity decreased survival after exposure to radiation. This requirement for CDK2 activity in DNA damage response was missed by gene knockout- and RNAi-based studies. The study provides evidence that CDK2 plays a specific role in DNA damage response in human cells, which is important for ensuring the accuracy of DNA replication.
This study uses a new method called formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements (FAIRE) to identify open chromatin regions in two different types of blood cells. The study focuses on genetic variants associated with hematological traits (such as platelet counts) and cardiovascular disease (such as coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction). The study found that the genetic variants associated with these diseases are located in different open chromatin regions depending on the type of blood cell. The study then went on to examine a specific genetic locus on chromosome 7 that is associated with both hematological traits and cardiovascular disease. By comparing the open chromatin regions of this locus in megakaryocytes and erythroblasts, the study identified a specific open chromatin region in megakaryocytes that is important for the platelet phenotype. Overall, this study shows how genetic variants associated with complex diseases can be studied using new methods to identify open chromatin regions in specific types of blood cells.
Neuroscientists use certain drugs to block certain electrical currents in neurons. These drugs are used to understand the function of these neurons and the networks they are a part of. However, the exact mechanism of how these drugs work is not always considered when interpreting or simulating the experimental data. This study shows that different drugs that block the same electrical current in neurons can have different effects on neuronal and circuit activity. The study compared the effects of two drugs with different mechanisms of action on a type of neuron involved in breathing rhythms in animals. The first drug, tetrodotoxin (TTX), blocks the electrical current directly by obstructing the pore of the ion channel. The second drug, riluzole (RZ), shifts the activation curve of the electrical current in the negative direction. At low concentrations, both drugs can selectively block the electrical current in question without affecting other electrical currents. However, the study found that after RZ blockade, the electrical current could be reactivated by a hyperpolarizing perturbation, while TTX blockade did not show the same effect. This study suggests that in intact preparations, the respiratory network fails to effectively block the electrical current by RZ, while complete block by TTX abolishes the respiratory rhythm. The study highlights the importance of considering the mechanism of action when interpreting and simulating experimental data from pharmacological blocking studies.
The authors report a study that used miRNA microarrays to identify differentially expressed miRNAs in non-invasive and invasive GC cells. They found 45 miRNAs that were differentially expressed, including miR-218, which was significantly downregulated in highly invasive cells. They also found that decreased miR-218 expression was correlated with advanced clinical stage, lymph node metastasis, and poor prognosis in patients. The authors then demonstrated that re-expression of miR-218 in metastatic cells inhibited migration, invasion, and metastasis formation both in vitro and in vivo. They also used bioinformatics to identify Robo1 as a potential target of miR-218, and they confirmed that the interaction between miR-218 and Robo1 was crucial to GC cell motility. The authors also found an intriguing negative feedback loop involving Slit, miR-218, and Robo1, in which miR-218 can be derived from either of two genes located in the introns of two distinct members of the Slit protein family.
Atherosclerosis is a long-term disease that can cause heart attacks, strokes, and even death. Statins are commonly prescribed to lower the risk of heart attacks and strokes. However, there are times when statins cause severe side effects. To understand how statins work and to use them more effectively, it is important to know what genes are affected by lowering plasma lipoproteins. New tools that measure changes in gene expression are now available, and we used a special mouse model that has a similar lipoprotein profile to a disease called familial hypercholesterolemia and a genetic switch to lower plasma lipoproteins to study how lowering plasma cholesterol affects the development of atherosclerosis and to find genes that are affected by lowering cholesterol levels.
The cell envelope of bacteria protects them from their environment and provides the site for important pathogenicity determinants. The envelope varies in structure throughout the bacterial domain, and there are currently no effective treatments for Gram-negative bacterial infections due to their outer membrane's high resistance to antibiotics. In this study, the authors developed a new genetic screen using the substrate CPRG that cannot penetrate the envelope to identify new factors involved in envelope biogenesis. The screen identified multiple new factors, including ycbC, which encodes a conserved protein with an unknown function. Further analysis of ycbC mutants revealed that it is important for proper PG biogenesis and cell growth at low temperatures. The authors suggest that this method can be transferred to other organisms to study the biogenesis of different envelope architectures.
Researchers have studied how data from different observations can be used to create complete trajectories. This is important in physics, social sciences, and in the study of developing tissues. To do this, we use a process called matrix completion, which involves filling in missing information in a matrix. We use an example of a Drosophila embryo to explain the process. The embryo has a pattern of nuclear Dorsal localization that establishes DV stripes, but we don't know how different factors, such as gene expression and protein phosphorylation, work together to create this pattern. To understand this, we treat the information we have as a matrix that is missing some information. We then fill in the missing information by using information from other parts of the matrix. We use a closed-form solution to the matrix completion problem and then test our solution on synthetic and experimental data.
Snake venom metalloproteinases (SVMPs) are enzymes that are found in the venom of many snakes, especially those in the family Viperidae. These enzymes are abundant and diverse, and have many different biological activities. They are categorized into three main classes based on their domain structure: PI, PII, and PIII. These enzymes are often used as toxins in evolutionary and ecological studies, and have been linked to microvascular damage and hemorrhage.
In Drosophila melanogaster, an RNA called the iab-8 ncRNA is transcribed in the 8th and 9th abdominal segments of the embryo, from Abd-B towards abd-A. The RNA is first seen at stage 6 in the epidermis and then in the developing central nervous system from stage 14 onwards. A promoter for an uncharacterized RNA was mapped to the iab-8 region. Additionally, a precursor for a micro RNA called miR-iab-8 or miR-iab-4AS, which is transcribed from the iab-3 regulatory region in the distal-to-proximal direction, was detected in the 8th and 9th abdominal segments. The miRNA is required for male and female fertility, and complementation tests suggest that its start site is in the iab-8 regulatory region. In this study, the structure and function of the 92 kb long iab-8 ncRNA are characterized. The ncRNA represses the expression of the homeotic gene abd-A in the posterior central nervous system, depending not only on the miR-iab-8 micro RNA but also on transcriptional interference in the region of the abd-A promoter.
Focal seizures are episodes of brain activity that can be very disruptive. They can happen in different parts of the brain and are caused by something going wrong in that part of the brain. We can use different tools, like electroencephalography (EEG), to find out where the seizure started and what caused it. These tools can tell us if the seizure started in a specific area of the brain and what type of brain activity it looks like. Different types of brain activity can happen at the start of a seizure and we can use different ways to measure this. One way is by looking at how many times a brain cell fires in a certain amount of time. In this paper, we found that two types of brain activity happen at the start of a seizure. The first type, called low amplitude fast (LAF) activity, has small waves that get bigger as the seizure goes on. The second type, called high amplitude slow (HAS) activity, has waves that are bigger at the start of the seizure. We found that most of the time, seizures start with LAF activity, but HAS activity might be worse. This might mean that if we remove the part of the brain that caused the HAS activity, it might be more effective for stopping the seizure. We think that there might be different ways that seizures can start and that this could explain why some seizures are easier to treat than others.
In this paper, the authors explore the function of small proteins called DEFLs (defensin-like proteins) that are specifically expressed in the embryo sac of maize plants. The DEFLs are part of a larger group of proteins called cysteine-rich proteins that are expressed in the female reproductive structures of plants. These proteins have been linked to the interaction between male and female reproductive structures and play a role in the process of fertilization. The authors report that DEFLs are down-regulated immediately upon fertilization, suggesting that they may play a role in the early stages of fertilization. They used genetic and biochemical techniques to investigate the function of these proteins, including knocking out the genes that encode them and analyzing the effects on the plants.
Scientists are developing a virus that can specifically target and kill cancer cells. This virus, called HSV-1, can be genetically modified to target cancer-specific molecules found on cancer cells. In this study, the virus was modified to target a protein called HER-2, which is overexpressed in breast and ovarian cancer cells. The modified virus was tested in mice with tumors that had spread throughout the peritoneal cavity. The results showed that the modified virus was effective in killing the cancer cells and inhibiting the spread of the tumor. This could lead to a new treatment option for patients with breast and ovarian cancer that has spread.
The spindle pole body (SPB) is the "pole" of the spindle in cells that helps cells divide. To make sure that the cell divides properly, the number of SPBs must be controlled so that there are only two. In yeast, it is known that the protein Sfi1 is needed for the SPB to duplicate. It is also known that Sfi1 can be phosphorylated by a protein called cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1). In this study, the authors showed that phosphorylation of Sfi1 by Cdk1 is required to stop SPB duplication from happening too often. When Sfi1 was modified to mimic the phosphorylation state of Sfi1 in cells that were not dividing, the cells had only one SPB. The authors also showed that dephosphorylation of Sfi1 by a protein called Cdc14 is required for SPB duplication. These findings support a model where Cdk1 phosphorylates Sfi1 to block SPB duplication, and Cdc14 dephosphorylates Sfi1 to allow SPB duplication.
HIV-1 is a virus that causes AIDS and has four accessory proteins: Vif, Vpu, Nef, and Vpr. Vpr is a small but important protein that causes G2 cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and enhances the transcription of the virus in infected cells. Previous studies have reported that vpr-deficient HIV-1 replicates less efficiently in CD4+ T cells in vitro. However, the role of Vpr in HIV-1 replication in vivo and the precise mechanism of action of Vpr are still unclear. HIV-1 mainly infects CD4+ T cells, which can be divided into three subsets: naive CD4+ T cells (Tns), memory CD4+ T cells (Tms), and regulatory CD4+ T cells (Tregs). Tregs are a subset of CD4+ T cells that play a central role in maintaining self-tolerance and immune homeostasis. It has been reported that HIV-1 infection decreases Tregs in humans and macaque monkeys. In this study, the authors used a humanized mouse model to investigate the fundamental role of Vpr in HIV-1 infection in vivo. Their findings suggest that Vpr plays a crucial role in accelerating R5 HIV-1 propagation during acute infection by utilizing CCR5+ proliferating CD4+ T cells, including Tregs.
Plasmodium vivax is a type of malaria parasite that is second only to Plasmodium falciparum in terms of how many people it affects. It is found in many parts of the world, including Asia, Melanesia, the Middle East, South and Central America. There are 390 million cases of P. vivax reported every year and 2.85 billion people are at risk of getting this type of malaria. Treatment for this type of malaria is not always effective, and it can also cause severe cases. Scientists have studied the genetic characteristics of the P. vivax population in areas where it is prevalent year-round or in a particular season but not continuously throughout the year. However, less is known about these characteristics in areas where P. vivax is seasonally prevalent but not continuously throughout the year. In South Korea, which is located in a temperate zone, indigenous vivax malaria was successfully eliminated by the late 1970s. However, there was a re-emergence in the 1990s. This re-emergence was mainly due to soldiers from South Korea and the United States or veterans who had served in the western Demilitarized Zone, which is in the border area between North and South Korea. Despite continuous malaria control measures implemented by the South Korean government, there was a steady increase in the number of reported vivax malaria cases until 2000. The number of reported cases then gradually decreased until 2004. Since 2005, the number of reported cases fluctuated between 838 and 2,227 per year. In a previous study, researchers analyzed the population structure and temporal dynamics of P. vivax transmission in South Korea using microsatellite DNA loci from 87 isolates from 1994-2008. They found that two main groups of haplotypes had been transmitting for nearly 10 years. This suggests that the recombination rate of P. vivax in temperate South Korea is lower than in tropical areas where genetically identical haplotypes are seldom seen in two consecutive years. However, other new haplotypes have been observed since 1997. These new haplotypes are genetically distinct from the main two. This suggests that P. vivax is being continually introduced from other population sources. In the present study, researchers increased the number of microsatellite DNA loci from 10 to 14 and the sample size of P. vivax isolates from South Korea from an average of 5.8 isolates per year to an average of 10.9 isolates per year. They performed population genetic analysis with a focus on the differences of the parasite populations between successive years. Through this, they provide a more detailed and precise estimate of the characteristics of the vivax malaria population structure and the temporal dynamics of its transmission. Based on their new findings, they discuss the situation of the P. vivax population in South Korea and provide a possible explanation as to why, in spite of a continuous malaria control program, efforts to eliminate vivax malaria have been unsuccessful.
Introns are parts of a gene that are not translated into proteins. They have been around for more than 40 years, but scientists are still not sure of their exact function. They are believed to help with the regulation of the mRNA output of a gene. Some introns actually increase the efficiency of mRNA production. This effect is called “intron-mediated enhancement of transcription” (IME). Most eukaryotic organisms, including yeast, worms, and humans, use IME to make their genes more efficient. However, the specific way that IME works is still unknown. It is known that IME involves a process called gene looping, where the promoter and terminator regions of a gene interact in a transcription-dependent manner. Recent studies have also shown that IME may also be related to the directionality of transcription. It is believed that the introns help with the recruitment of termination factors near the promoter region, which then selectively terminate uaRNA synthesis. This gives the promoter-initiated transcription directionality.
Scientists have discovered a gene that controls how much muscle pigs have and how much fat they have. They found that a mutation in the gene for insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) causes the pig to make more muscle and less fat. They also found that this mutation is close to being fixed in pigs used for meat production. This gene is important because it affects how much meat pigs make.
A recent discovery has shown that changes in the sequence of a gene's RNA can occur after it is transcribed from its DNA sequence, a process known as RNA editing. NGS technology has made it possible to determine which genes are being edited at a genome-wide level. However, there have been challenges in accurately identifying RNA editing sites using NGS data. To address this, researchers have analyzed RNA editing in rhesus macaques and found that RNA editing is a widespread form of functional regulation shaped by purifying selection. This finding provides an important evolutionary context for understanding RNA editing in humans.
This study investigates how the brain makes decisions based on information from neurons in primary visual cortex (V1). The study shows that the brain may not use the most efficient method of using all of the information to make decisions. Instead, it may use a less efficient method that only uses some of the information. The less efficient method is likely due to the brain being unable to use all of the information to make decisions with high accuracy. The study suggests that more research needs to be done to understand how the brain makes decisions more efficiently.
The article discusses a type of RNA called piRNAs, which are important for the health of all types of living organisms. These RNAs are found in the germline, which is the part of the organism that makes babies. The article explains that piRNAs are very diverse, with thousands of different sequences in each organism. They also explain that piRNAs have a special feature that makes them more likely to be used by a particular type of protein called Piwi. This article also explains how piRNAs are made and how they are controlled in the animal Caenorhabditis elegans, which is a type of worm that is commonly used as a model for studying human diseases. Finally, the article explains that piRNAs have a special sequence that is important for their function, which is also important for their regulation.
Infection with the bacterium Brucella causes a serious disease that affects both animals and humans. In order to survive, Brucella needs to replicate inside host cells. The bacterium enters cells through a process called endocytosis and then travels through the cell to reach its destination, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Once there, it forms a special organelle called the Brucella-containing vacuole (BCV), which serves as its home. The BCV is very similar to an organelle called the Golgi apparatus, and it is formed by a process called vesicle transport, where smaller vesicles combine to form a larger one. This process is controlled by proteins called host factors.  Recent studies have shown that the Golgi apparatus and the ER play an important role in the intracellular life of Brucella, and that proteins involved in vesicle transport are required for its replication. However, the exact mechanism of BCV biogenesis is not yet fully understood. In this study, the researchers used a molecular technique called siRNA (small interfering RNA) to block the activity of a protein called Yip1A, which is involved in a process called unfolded protein response (UPR). They found that when Yip1A activity was blocked, the replication of Brucella was severely affected. This suggests that Yip1A is a crucial host factor for Brucella to survive and replicate inside host cells. The researchers also found that Yip1A interacts with a protein called IRE1, which is involved in UPR. This suggests that UPR is also involved in the intracellular life of Brucella. Overall, the study highlights the importance of understanding the host-pathogen interaction in order to develop effective treatments for infectious diseases.
The protein Vps34 helps yeast and plant cells to recycle materials and to form early endosomes. It can also help autophagic structures, which are structures that help with recycling during starvation. Vps34 has a role in many human diseases, such as cancer, heart problems, and neurodegeneration. It is also important for the replication of some viruses, including hepatitis C virus. In our research, we found that TBSV, a tombusvirus, uses Vps34 to form a large replication compartment in yeast and plant cells. This means that Vps34 is very important for tombusvirus to replicate. We found that the replication compartment has a lot of PI (3)P, a signaling and structural lipid molecule. PI (3)P helps to identify endosomes and regulate vesicle fusion and autophagosome formation. It is also important for many intracellular microbes and parasites to establish infections. TBSV seems to use PI (3)P to help with replication in the large replication compartment.
Mosquito-borne viruses, such as chikungunya and Zika viruses, have expanded into the Western hemisphere and have been associated with a wider range of pathologies than previously recognized. These viruses have now been reported in Africa, Asia, and the Americas, with small-scale outbreaks in Europe. Dengue virus (DENV) is the most prevalent mosquito-borne virus, and disease patterns vary geographically based on the co-circulation of serotypes 1–4, different virus genotypes, human population growth and migration, including urbanization, and geographic expansion of mosquito vectors. Understanding the epidemiology of mosquito-borne viruses is complicated by the need to quantify virus transmission between humans and mosquitoes. While infections in humans have been extensively studied in clinic- and community-based studies, examining natural transmission of DENV from humans to mosquitoes and the potential for mosquitoes that feed on DENV-infected people to contribute to onward transmission has faced challenges related to methods and perceived acceptability. The objectives of this study were to compare measures of DENV infection and dissemination in mosquitoes fed directly on humans to those fed on blood collected from the same study participants (blood was untreated and/or EDTA-treated prior to mosquito exposure); correlate these results to measures of infectious DENV particles in blood; obtain preliminary data on the ability of DENV from people with mild or inapparent disease to infect and disseminate within mosquitoes; and optimize enrollment and feeding methods through incremental implementation of a study protocol. The companion report [5] describes human acceptability of direct mosquito feeding based on focus group interviews.
In this study, the authors have used the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism to identify the genetic basis of susceptibility to antineoplastic compounds that target topoisomerase II enzymes. They have used unbiased genetic mapping approaches and CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing to identify a single amino acid variation in a topoisomerase II enzyme that underlies the observed physiological responses to the topoisomerase II poison etoposide. The specific amino acid variation ( Q797M ) is conserved in humans and is one of the few differences between the putative drug-binding pockets of the two topoisomerase II isoforms. The authors have also shown that this variation contributes to differential toxicity of various topoisomerase II poisons in human cell lines. These findings demonstrate the power of using C . elegans natural genetic variation to identify mechanisms of drug susceptibility in human cells that could inform human health decisions based on genetic information.
Researchers have tried to understand the genetic mechanisms that control lifespan and aging by studying single-gene mutations in invertebrates or short-lived vertebrate species. However, it's unclear if this knowledge can be applied to long-lived species like humans. To address this, researchers compared the genes and pathways between long-lived and short-lived species with similar body mass. They found that rodents, particularly African mole-rats, are a good model for studying aging. They have longer lifespans and fewer signs of aging than other rodents. The researchers also used a statistical model to find genes that changed over time due to positive selection, and found that these genes were linked to aging and lifespan. They also looked at the expression of these genes during aging. Their findings have important implications for understanding the genetic basis of aging and lifespan.
Scientists are developing a new way to control mosquito populations that carry dangerous viruses. This method involves introducing a special type of bacteria into the mosquitoes that makes them unable to carry the viruses. This could be done through the release of functionally sterile males, or by replacing wild-type mosquitoes with those infected with the bacteria. The scientists used this method with mosquitoes infected with the Wolbachia bacteria, which is commonly found in mosquitoes but not in the viruses they carry. They found that introducing this bacteria into the mosquitoes greatly reduced their ability to carry the viruses. This could be a useful tool in the fight against mosquito-borne diseases, such as dengue, yellow fever, chikungunya, and Zika virus, as it would help reduce the number of infected mosquitoes.
Proteins are key players in all aspects of cellular life. They usually act in combination with other molecules, forming complexes or networks. Understanding the nature of these interactions is essential to comprehend how proteins work and how they respond to competitors, such as drugs. One approach to understanding protein-protein interactions is through the study of domains, which are discrete parts of proteins that bind to other molecules. Domain-peptide interactions are especially important for signalling networks because they tend to be small and transient. These interactions are mediated by short peptide sequences, or linear motifs, that bind to their recognition domain and often adopt a well-defined structure upon binding. In this work, the authors explore the structure of domain-peptide interactions to identify novel linear motifs and their binding domains. They use known 3D structures of protein complexes to identify potential domain-peptide interactions, and compare them to known consensus motifs and their binding domains. They also use structure-encoded information about interactions to identify new domain-motif interactions and derive their consensus binding patterns. Their findings provide insights into the nature of domain-peptide interactions and may be useful for understanding the function and fast-evolving profiles of these interactions.
Environmental enteropathy (EE) is a type of intestinal damage that causes microbial translocation and systemic inflammation, leading to poor growth, malabsorption, and increased risk of disease. The impairment of barrier function is the key factor in the pathogenesis of EE, which can be caused by subclinical infections or changes in the microbiota. The mucus layer, antimicrobial peptides, IgA, and epithelial cells are all part of the intestinal barrier. Epithelial cell polarity and the formation of tight junctions are important for barrier function. Tight junctions are a key part of the epithelial barrier and regulate ion selectivity. CLE is a new technique for visualizing and quantifying intestinal epithelial barrier integrity in real time. It is important to study cellular defects and barrier integrity in EE to understand its pathophysiological processes and develop effective treatments. In this study, the research team used CLE to study volunteers from an impoverished urban African community. They measured histopathological lesions, tight junction protein expression, plasma markers of translocation, zinc uptake, gastric pH, serum i-FABP, inflammatory markers, and GLP-2 levels. Transcriptomic analysis was also performed to search for novel determinants of barrier function.
Superinfection exclusion (SIE) is the ability of a pre-existing virus (the primary invader) to stop other viruses (superinfectors) from infecting the same cells. This has been observed with many viruses, including human viruses like HIV and HCV, animal viruses like VSV, and plant viruses like TMV and CTV. In these examples, SIE is due to primary invaders acting in single cells to prevent the multiplication of highly homologous superinfectors. In the case of TCV, a small icosahedral virus that infects plants, the protein p28 is responsible for SIE. p28 forms multimeric intracellular inclusions that inactivate p28 translated from superinfectors, preventing them from replicating. This simple mechanism of SIE could have applications for antiviral therapy.
A new study has shown that vaccines made from two genes from the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite could protect mice from the disease for over six months. One of the genes is trans-sialidase (TS), which helps the parasite survive by transferring sialic acid from host cells onto itself. The other gene is interleukin-15 (IL-15), which is a cytokine that helps long-term memory T cells survive. The study found that when vaccines were made from both TS and IL-15, they were able to produce long-term CD8+ T cell responses and protective immunity in mice. This is important because it means that vaccines made from these two genes could potentially provide long-term protection against the disease in people as well.
The protein kinase PLK plays important roles in cell division and cell cycle regulation. In a parasitic protozoan called Trypanosoma brucei, a PLK homolog called TbPLK is involved in regulating cell division and flagellum attachment. However, the mechanism by which TbPLK is regulated is not well understood. In this study, the authors identified a Cullin4-based ubiquitin ligase complex called CRL4WDR1 that mediates TbPLK degradation in the basal body and the bilobe. Without this degradation, TbPLK would accumulate and cause problems with cell division and flagellum attachment. This finding provides important information about how TbPLK is regulated and how it controls cell division and flagellum attachment.
DDX3X is a gene found in cells that helps fight viral and bacterial infections. It does this by turning on genes that help cells fight these infections, making the infections go away. The gene is important for the health of male mice and humans. In some cases, DDX3X can help infections to happen, and in other cases it helps to fight against them. There are many ways that DDX3X can work, but we don't know exactly how it does it. We also don't know if it works differently in men and women. More research is needed to understand how DDX3X works and how it affects the health of men and women.
The paper is about a model of how moths use olfactory receptors to detect female moths. The moth's olfactory receptors are located on their antennae. These receptors can detect a female pheromone molecule, which is a chemical that female moths release to attract males. Scientists have been studying these receptors for a long time, using different techniques like molecular, radiochemical, pharmacological, electrophysiological, calcium imaging, behavioral, and modeling techniques. This paper presents a model of the processes that happen after the receptor binds to the pheromone molecule, including how the receptor generates an electrical signal that can be sent to the brain. The model also explains what each of the currents involved in the process do. It also explains what might cause the concentration-response curves to have short rising times and long falling times. The model also suggests possible roles for each of the currents involved.
In this study, the authors investigate how the sequence and chromatin context of p53 binding sites affect p53's ability to bind to DNA and regulate gene expression. The authors used genomic data from the ENCODE project to analyze chromatin states, gene expression, and DNase I hypersensitivity in response to DNA damage. They also analyzed the sequence content of p53 binding sites using published data and compared the sequence content to the chromatin state and gene expression. The authors found that there is a strong correlation between p53 binding site sequence content and genomic occupancy. They also found that chromatin state context modulates the relationship between p53 occupancy level and changes in gene expression. Furthermore, they found that the interaction between p53 binding site sequence content and chromatin state context was likely shaped by evolutionary selective pressure driven by transposable elements. Their findings provide new insights into the complex interrelationship between chromatin state and p53 binding site sequence, and highlight the importance of considering the interactions of sequence content and epigenetic factors in interpreting p53-mediated stress responses.
The researchers developed a mathematical model of a simple signaling system consisting of two proteins, a histidine protein kinase (HK) and a response regulator (RR). They then used the model to analyze how the system responds to different levels of an environmental stimulus. The researchers found that the system can display a threshold signal-response relationship, meaning that the steady state levels of the phosphorylated output RR remain low until a certain threshold level of signal is crossed. They also found that the threshold can be controlled through the concentrations of the proteins in the system and through the presence of an auxiliary protein. The researchers then reconstituted the system in vitro using proteins from the chemotaxis pathway of Sinorhizobium meliloti, and they verified the mathematical predictions. The researchers conclude that these sink-containing two-component signaling systems can be used to build synthetic signaling systems with a threshold signal-response relationship.
Scientists have discovered that some cells survive stress better than others within an isogenic population. This can happen when a gene is expressed differently in different cells, or because of variation in stress-induced responses. It can also happen because of stochastic events, such as when a protein is produced at different levels in different cells. By studying yeast cells, scientists found that some genes in the same isogenic population have different levels of expression, and that this variation can predict how well the cells will survive extreme stress. They also found that some genes are expressed differently in unstressed cells, which may explain why some cells survive stress better than others. The study has broad applications, such as in the treatment of infections and the blocking of cancer metastases.
Trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is a parasitic disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei. There are two types of human sleeping sickness, T. b. gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense. T. b. gambiense causes a chronic form of sleeping sickness, while T. b. rhodesiense causes a fulminant, acute disease. In cattle, trypanosomes can cause a disease known as nagana, which is mainly caused by T. congolense and T. vivax. T. b. evansi is also a cause of nagana in cattle. These diseases are important because they can cause death if left untreated, and can limit livestock production in sub-Saharan Africa. T. b. brucei, T. congolense, and T. vivax are transmitted by tsetse flies in sub-Saharan Africa, while T. b. evansi is transmitted by hematophagous biting flies. T. b. gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense can also be transmitted sexually, although this is not common. Studies have shown that T. b. brucei can be found in the male reproductive organs of infected animals, including spermatozoa in the testis and epididymis. This can lead to inflammation of these organs, which can result in infertility and sterility.
Chemical cues are important for many aspects of animal life, such as foraging, mating, and choosing a host plant. Animals have evolved a range of chemosensory proteins to help them detect these cues, including odorant receptors, gustatory receptors, and odorant binding proteins. The evolution of these proteins has led to redundancy between chemosensory proteins and the chemicals they bind to, which makes the chemical recognition process more sensitive and robust. However, the expression of these proteins can change depending on the animal's developmental stage, reproductive state, and other factors. To study how these proteins are expressed under different conditions, researchers used microarrays to measure the levels of all odorant receptor, gustatory receptor, and odorant binding protein genes in Drosophila melanogaster. They found that genes within clusters in the genome are independently regulated, and that many chemosensory genes show plasticity in expression, meaning they change how they are expressed depending on the animal's condition. The chemosensory subgenome, which contains all of these genes, is structured as a mosaic of small modules of highly correlated transcripts, which allows for finely tuned changes in the expression of the chemoreceptor repertoire under different environmental conditions.
The paper describes how certain mistakes during meiosis (the process of forming sperm and egg cells) can cause genetic disorders. These mistakes are related to how often and where chromosomes exchange genetic material (recombine) during meiosis. Previous studies have shown that many genetic disorders, such as trisomies 13, 15, 16, 21, 22 and sex chromosome trisomies, are caused by a lack of or problems with where genetic material exchanges occur between homologous chromosomes (the same type of chromosome from each parent). The authors of this paper suggest that this may be due to two factors: first, when the mother is older, homologous chromosomes are more likely to not exchange genetic material; and second, certain types of homologous chromosomes are more likely to have problems with where genetic material exchanges occur. The authors have studied this in more detail by examining prophase oocytes (a stage of meiosis) from fetal ovaries and comparing them to prophase spermatocytes (a stage of meiosis) from fetal testes. They used antibodies to label specific regions of the chromosomes and examined the location of these labels under a microscope. They found that the timing of the appearance of certain proteins on the synaptonemal complex (a structure that forms during meiosis) was different in females and males. They also found that certain types of homologous chromosomes were more likely to not exchange genetic material or to have problems with where genetic material exchanged. These observations support the authors' hypothesis that certain types of homologous chromosomes are more likely to have problems with where genetic material exchanges occur, and that this may explain why certain types of trisomies are more common in older mothers.
This paper examines how a host’s immune response can affect the spread of diseases transmitted by arthropods such as mosquitoes and sand flies. When a host is bitten by an arthropod, the host's immune system reacts to the saliva injected by the arthropod. This reaction can affect how the host responds to a subsequent infection with a parasite or virus. This study shows that prior exposure to uninfected arthropod saliva can have protective effects on a host's immune response to a subsequent infection. It also shows that pre-sensitisation can affect the effectiveness of interventions that target vectors, such as insecticide spraying. Overall, this study highlights the complex interplay between a host's immune response and the saliva of arthropods, and the impact that this interplay can have on disease transmission and the effectiveness of disease control interventions.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by Leishmania parasites and transmitted by bites of infected sand flies. There are different forms of the disease, with two main types being cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Cutaneous leishmaniasis has two different forms: localized cutaneous leishmaniasis (LCL) and diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis (DCL). Infection with Leishmania amazonensis can cause both forms of cutaneous leishmaniasis. There is a mouse model to study Leishmania infections that uses Leishmania major and different mouse strains. Some mouse strains, such as C57BL/6, develop Th1 responses and are resistant to Leishmania major infection, while other strains, such as BALB/c, develop Th2 responses and are susceptible to Leishmania major infection. However, in infections with Leishmania amazonensis, most mouse strains develop mixed Th1 and Th2 responses. The immune response of nude mice, which are mice that lack a functional immune system, has not been studied in depth. This study compared the proteomes of amastigotes (the infective stage of the Leishmania parasite) isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice. The analysis showed that there were differences in the proteomes of the amastigotes isolated from the two strains of mice. These differences may help to understand the immune response in humans with cutaneous leishmaniasis, especially in individuals with the diffuse cutaneous form of the disease, who have an anergic immune response.
This research paper is about the protein called activation-induced cytosine deaminase (AID) and how it affects the immune system. AID is important for the immune system to make antibodies and for the body to fight off infections. AID is regulated in the body and can be affected by different factors, such as the cell cycle. The cell cycle is a series of stages that a cell goes through before it divides into two new cells. The paper shows that nuclear degradation (breaking down of AID) happens more slowly in cells that are in the first stage of the cell cycle than in cells that are in later stages. The paper also shows that mutations or deletions in certain parts of the AID protein can affect how it is regulated in the cell cycle and how it functions. The paper suggests that certain AID derivatives, which are modified versions of the AID protein, could be used to engineer genes or to study how the immune system works. Finally, the paper suggests that cell cycle tags, which are also modified versions of proteins, could be used to study DNA repair and recombination, RNA biogenesis (the process of making RNA), and genome engineering (changing the DNA sequence).
Scientists have discovered that many bacteria in the soil and in the human gut are able to break down plant biomass into smaller pieces and use it as a source of food. These microbes are known as "clostridia". To understand how these bacteria break down plant biomass, scientists studied one particular clostridium called "Clostridium phytofermentans". They found that this bacterium is able to break down many different types of plant biomass, including things like cellulose, hemicellulose, and pectin. They then used a combination of genetic analysis, biochemical analysis, and protein analysis to determine which specific proteins are involved in breaking down different types of plant biomass and in what order they are used. This information can help scientists better understand how different types of plant biomass are broken down by different microbes and how to use this information to develop new ways to use plant biomass for things like biofuels and other products.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) and onchocerciasis are diseases caused by parasites that are spread by mosquitoes. They are major neglected tropical diseases that are targeted for elimination using a strategy called preventive chemotherapy and transmission control. In Sierra Leone, both diseases are widely distributed across the country and can cause severe disabilities if left untreated. Onchocerciasis is controlled in Sierra Leone through the African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control using the annual community-directed treatment with ivermectin (CDTI) strategy. LF is controlled using annual mass drug administration (MDA) with albendazole and ivermectin. The study described in this manuscript is the midterm evaluation of the LF programme in Sierra Leone as part of the national Neglected Tropical Diseases Control Programme. The study assessed the impact of three rounds of MDA on LF prevalence and mf density in areas of low LF endemicity, which may be related to previous treatment with ivermectin for onchocerciasis control. The study found that three rounds of MDA were effective in reducing LF prevalence and mf density in many communities of Sierra Leone.
Researchers have been using genomic surveys like 16S rRNA gene profiling to study the composition of natural communities, but there is still a need for well-validated analysis methods. A common goal of these surveys is to find correlations between different taxa within the community. However, the data from these surveys are not absolute but rather relative measures of abundances, and the methods used to analyze them are not appropriate. This is because these data are compositional, meaning that the counts of individual components are not independent. Instead, they are related to each other and tend to have a negative correlation. Therefore, correlation estimates are biased and do not reflect the true biological processes. This is because they reflect the compositional nature of the data. Karl Pearson warned against interpreting correlations between ratios whose numerators and denominators contain common parts in 1897, and this is still a problem today. While there have been methods developed to analyze compositional data, they do not provide a mapping between the correlations of the transformed variables and the correlations of the underlying genes or species. In this paper, the authors first demonstrate that genomic survey data can be severely biased by compositional effects, and then identify the factors that modulate their severity. Finally, they present a new method called SparCC that can infer correlations with high accuracy even in the most challenging data sets.
Lysozyme is a powerful antimicrobial protein that helps protect mucosal surfaces, such as those in the upper respiratory tract, from infection. It has two different antibacterial activities: its enzymatic muramidase activity and its inherent cationic antimicrobial peptide (CAMP) activity. Lysozyme's enzymatic activity breaks down the cell wall of bacteria by hydrolyzing the conserved glycosidic bond between N-acetyl glucosamine and N-acetyl muramic acid. This breaks down the bacterial cell wall and leads to bacterial lysis. The inherent CAMP activity of lysozyme disrupts bacterial membrane function. The protective role of lysozyme in innate host defense has been studied using genetically-modified mice. Transgenic mice over-expressing rat lysozyme in their lungs had enhanced killing of group B streptococci and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Mice lacking the lysozyme gene LysM had defective clearance of P. aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae from their lower airways. These studies demonstrate a protective role of lysozyme for opportunistic pathogens in normally sterile sites. However, the impact of lysozyme on the mucosal flora is unknown. Bacteria that reside on mucosal surfaces where lysozyme is particularly abundant must have the ability to evade its antibacterial effects. In S. pneumoniae, which is a leading extracellular Gram-positive pathogen that commonly colonizes the human nasopharynx, O-acetylation at position C-6 on MurNAc and d-alanine esters on its cell wall-linked teichoic acid have been associated with lysozyme resistance. This study aimed to determine the contribution of lysozyme to bacterial colonization using a murine model of carriage by S. pneumoniae. The findings suggest a critical role of lysozyme and peptidoglycan modifications that affect resistance to its muramidase activity in dictating the composition of the microflora of the mucosal surface of the upper airway.
Dengue fever is a serious mosquito-borne disease that can cause dengue fever, dengue hemorrhagic fever, and dengue shock syndrome. It affects about 2.5 billion people worldwide and causes an estimated 70-500 million infections annually in 100 endemic countries. In Brazil, the disease is a public health problem associated with explosive epidemics, and a total of 5.9 million cases were reported since 1986, including 21,600 deaths. Laboratory diagnosis of dengue infection is based on virus isolation, detection of viral RNA, and DENV-specific antibodies. However, studies have shown that the DENV nonstructural 1 (NS1) antigen is abundant in the serum of patients in the early phase of infection and is useful in diagnosing dengue infection. A previous study evaluated three NS1 tests for early diagnosis of dengue in Brazil. On the other hand, virological diagnosis in tissues from dengue fatal cases shows a more complex scenario. The presence of DENV in tissue specimens from autopsies can be determined by viral RNA detection or viral protein detection by immunohistochemistry. Here, we aimed to assess the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate DENV antigens in human tissue specimens. We used tissue homogenates from dengue fatal cases that occurred in Brazil in 2002.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a cancer of plasma cells that happens due to changes in the genes that code for immunoglobulins. It is the second most common blood cancer in the US and affects about 10% of all hematologic cancer patients. MM is preceded by a condition called monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), where there is an increase in the number of antibody-making cells in the blood. MGUS is more common in people over 50 years old, and about 1% of people with MGUS develop MM every year. There are differences in how MM affects people of different races and ethnicities. For example, African Americans (AA) are three times more likely to develop MM and have a higher rate of death compared to Caucasians (CA). However, there have been improvements in treatments for MM, which have led to an increase in overall survival. But these improvements have not been seen in AA patients. Researchers are studying the genetic changes in MM to understand how these differences occur and to develop better treatments. The CoMMpass study is a research project where researchers are studying the natural history of MM in 1,000 newly diagnosed patients. The researchers are using DNA sequencing to look for genetic changes in the tumor cells. They are also using ancestry testing to determine the genetic background of each patient. This allows the researchers to compare the genetic changes in tumors from patients of different races and ethnicities. The study has found some differences in the genetic changes in tumors from AA patients compared to CA patients. However, more research is needed to understand the reasons for these differences and how they affect patient outcomes.
The paper introduces a new method to study the evolution of cancer. The authors explain that cancer cells have many mutations, some of which are harmful and some of which are not. The mutations that are not harmful are called "passengers" and do not respond to targeted therapy, but they can still cause problems for the cancer. The authors also explain that previous research has shown that many cancers have a small number of "driver" mutations that are responsible for causing cancer, and many more "passenger" mutations that do not cause cancer. The authors then describe a mathematical model that can be used to study the evolution of cancer cells with passenger mutations. This model is based on a famous mathematical model that was developed in the 1940s to study the evolution of bacteria. The authors explain that their model is different from the old model in that it includes more cell types and that it takes into account the fact that cancer cells grow and die stochastically, meaning that their growth and death can be unpredictable. The authors then explain that they used their model to study the evolution of cancer cells with passenger mutations in colorectal cancer. They found that the growth of cancer cells with passenger mutations can be used to learn more about the process of cancer evolution. The paper is important because it suggests a new way to study the evolution of cancer cells and it shows that passenger mutations can be used to learn more about the process of cancer evolution.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is associated with a polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the huntingtin protein. The first exon (XN1) of the huntingtin protein, which contains the polyQ region, has been implicated as the pathogenic polypeptide. It is hypothesized that after it is cleaved from huntingtin, the XN1 polypeptides misfold and form lethal cellular aggregates or inclusions in neuronal cells. Although previous experimental and computational studies have focused on specific regions of XN1, we propose to study the structure and dynamics of monomeric XN1 in order to help illuminate the aggregation mechanism and determine the role of these aggregates. Due to the structural complexity of XN1, we perform all-atom discrete molecular dynamics (DMD) simulations to systematically study the structural dynamics of XN1 and its variants. We construct 12 polypeptides categorized into three sets, including XN1 in its entirety, XN1 without the polyP flanking regions, and polyQ homopolymers, with different numbers of glutamine repeats. We find that the polyQ region has a lower probability of adopting β-sheet conformations in the context of XN1, and that the residues in the polyQ region can be induced to fold into a β-strand by increasing the number of glutamine repeats. We suggest that the polyQ and flanking regions in XN1 are strongly coupled in XN1 folding and misfolding.
CRISPRs are parts of bacteria's DNA that protect them from viruses. CRISPRs consist of repeats that are found in most bacteria, and spacers that are taken from viruses. CRISPRs come with special genes that help them fight against viruses. CRISPRs have been found in many different types of bacteria, and they are constantly changing to match the viruses they are fighting against. Previous studies have shown that CRISPRs are found in many different places in the human body and that they are constantly changing. A recent study found many different types of CRISPRs in saliva from people's mouths. By analyzing more than 700 samples from different places in the human body, we have found even more CRISPRs and studied how they are changing over time. This is important for understanding how bacteria protect themselves from viruses in different parts of the human body.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans ( C. elegans ) is a well-established model organism for studying development and behavior. In their soil habitat, worms are exposed to daily temperature fluctuations corresponding to solar irradiance during the day-night cycles. Several studies have previously reported the presence of circadian rhythms in C. elegans, but these rhythms were variable and non-robust. It was unclear whether C. elegans exhibits true bona fide circadian rhythms. In this study, the authors used expression profiling to identify light- and temperature-regulated transcriptional rhythms in C. elegans. They found that light and temperature globally drive the expression of many genes, indicating that C. elegans exhibits systemic responses to these stimuli. Light- and temperature-entrained transcripts appear to be largely nonoverlapping. The authors also found that conserved clock gene homologs do not exhibit circadian rhythmicity at the mRNA level, and that the TAX-2 cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit, previously implicated in thermosensory signal transduction and phototransduction, is required to transduce both light and temperature information to the clock. These results demonstrate that C. elegans has a circadian clock that is entrained by light and temperature, and indicate that this model organism can be used to further explore the evolution and function of the critical timekeeping mechanism.
Rad3 is a DNA helicase that is a subunit of the TFIIH complex. This complex is involved in transcription initiation and nucleotide excision repair (NER). NER is the process by which damaged DNA is repaired. Rad3 is responsible for unwinding the DNA containing a UV-induced lesion, producing single-stranded DNA that is then repaired. However, mutations in the rad3 gene can cause a hyper-Rec phenotype, which is a sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents such as UV radiation. The mutations can affect the ability of TFIIH to move along the DNA and repair damage, resulting in increased recombination and gene conversion. The mutations can also cause an increase in other types of genomic rearrangements such as deletions and duplications. The association between recombination and regions with elevated frequencies of the damage associated histone modification gamma-H2AX suggests that recombination can occur in response to DNA damage. The high level of deletions and duplications at the sub-telomeric region on the left arm of chromosome XV in rad3 hyper-Rec strains suggests that this region may be particularly sensitive to DNA damage. The similarity between the patterns of recombination observed in the rad3 versus wild-type strains suggests that a subset of spontaneous mitotic recombination events may be initiated by incomplete NER reactions.
A recent study explored how the bacterium Helicobacter pylori adapts to the changing microenvironment of the human stomach during infection. The bacterium's adaptation is achieved through a process called phase variation, which involves the sudden changes in the expression of specific proteins. These changes occur due to the presence of repeated sequences of DNA (simple sequence repeats) in the bacterium's genome. The study identified a particular repeated sequence of DNA, known as the T-tract, that affects the production of a protein called SabA, which is involved in the binding of the bacterium to the gastric mucosa. The study found that the length of this T-tract varied between different strains of the bacterium and that this variation affected the production of SabA. The authors also discovered that the T-tract affected the binding of the RNA polymerase to the DNA of the SabA gene, which in turn affected the production of SabA. The study suggested that this process may be used to regulate the production of other proteins in the bacterium. The study highlights the importance of understanding how bacteria adapt to their environment during infection and may lead to the development of new strategies for treating bacterial infections.
Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are a group of more than 100 viruses that cause cervical and other genital cancers. These viruses infect the cells of the genital tract and must evade the immune system to cause long-term infections. Some of the HPVs are high-risk viruses that increase the risk of cancer. These viruses use their own proteins to help them produce more copies of themselves and to avoid the immune system. Some of these proteins are called E6 and E7. E6 and E7 are important for the HPVs to cause cancer. The HPVs also use the immune system to make more copies of themselves. The immune system helps the HPVs produce more copies of themselves so that they can cause cancer. This process is not yet understood and more research is needed to learn how it works.
Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi ( S . Typhi ) and Paratyphi A ( S . Paratyphi A ) are human-specific pathogens that cause a serious disease known as enteric fever. This disease affects over 21 million people each year and results in 200,000 deaths. Enteric fever usually begins with the ingestion of contaminated water or food, and the pathogens invade the gut and then travel to different parts of the body including the liver, spleen, gallbladder, and intestinal lymph nodes. Most people recover from the acute stage of illness and clear the infection. However, a small percentage of S . Typhi ( and S . Paratyphi A ) infected individuals develop a chronic, but apparently asymptomatic, infection in the biliary tract that can persist for decades. Since S . Typhi and S . Paratyphi A are human-restricted pathogens, chronic carriers may act as reservoirs of infection within a community. Currently, there is no reliable diagnostic assay to identify asymptomatic S . Typhi and S . Paratyphi A carriers. Therefore, correctly identifying and treating chronic carriers is critical for the long-term control of enteric fever. A study used an immunoscreening technique called in vivo-induced antigen technology ( IVIAT ) to identify potential biomarkers unique to S . Typhi chronic carriers. The study hypothesized that S . Typhi surviving in the biliary tract of humans may express a proteomic profile distinct from that expressed in bacteria grown using standard in vitro conditions or during acute infection. This study may help advance our understanding of Salmonella pathogenesis of the chronic carrier state and identify potential biomarkers that can help identify asymptomatic chronic carriers.
The study of the genomes of eukaryotes has revealed that they produce an enormous number of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that can potentially have important biological functions. These RNAs are diverse in size, subcellular localization, and mechanisms of action. Some ncRNAs are part of epigenetic regulatory networks that have striking evolutionary conservation. RNAs can recruit chromatin modifying complexes to specific loci, leading to differentiation. The study of Position Effect Variegation (PEV) in the model system D. melanogaster shows that non-functional white alleles can increase eye pigmentation by trans-reactivating a variegating wm4h line, and this phenomenon is heritable. This new epigenetic phenomenon involves the presence of diffusible homologous RNA molecules and is affected by mutations in genes involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing. The study provides strong evidence that trans-reactivation is a new epigenetic phenomenon that positively controls gene expression in the context of heterochromatin through homologous RNA molecules.
Blood-sucking insects and ticks produce proteins that prevent blood from clotting, inflammation, and the immune response. These proteins have been identified in the salivary glands of these animals, and they are called Kunitz, Kazal, Serpin, Cathepsin, and Trypsin Inhibitor-Like (TIL) inhibitors. These proteins also affect the functions of immune cells, endothelial cells, and platelets. Some of these proteins have also been found in the midgut of these animals, and they have been shown to prevent blood clotting. For example, the proteins ornithodorin, hemalin, brasiliensin, dipetalogastin, rhodniin, and rhiphilin-2 from insects and ticks have been shown to prevent blood clotting. Additionally, some of these proteins, such as Boophilin from ticks, have been shown to affect the functions of multiple enzymes, including thrombin, plasmin, elastase, kallikrein, and Factor VIIa. It has also been shown that the silencing of the Boophilin gene in ticks results in a decrease in the weight of eggs laid. However, more information is needed on the kinetics of these proteins' interactions with different enzymes, how they affect platelet function, and whether they prevent blood clotting in vivo.
This paper introduces a new computer model called SEGMEnT that simulates the growth and structure of the gut tissue. This model can be used to explore different ways that gut tissue can become damaged or diseased. Specifically, SEGMEnT models the way that the gut tissue is arranged into crypts and villi, and how these structures are maintained and changed by the processes of cell division, movement, and differentiation. The model also includes information about the signaling pathways that control these processes, and how these pathways can be affected by inflammation. The model can be used to understand the relationships between different parts of the gut, and how they interact with each other to maintain a healthy gut. It can also be used to test different hypotheses about how the gut can become damaged or diseased, and how these diseases might be treated.
Mosquito-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya, and Zika viruses pose a significant health threat in tropical and subtropical regions. These viruses are spread by mosquitoes and can cause serious illnesses. Brazil has reported a significant number of cases of these viruses in recent years. To combat these mosquito-borne diseases, it is essential to control mosquito populations. However, due to insecticide resistance and logistical constraints, traditional methods of controlling mosquito populations are limited. As an alternative, a new approach is being tested in which endosymbiotic bacteria called Wolbachia are used to block the transmission of these viruses. Wolbachia are present in 60% of all arthropods, but not in mosquitoes. However, a few strains have been successfully transinfected into mosquitoes. These strains can be used to replace mosquito populations with reduced potential for virus transmission. The World Mosquito Program, in collaboration with the Brazilian Ministry of Health, has released Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes in a community in Rio de Janeiro. However, the bacteria were unable to spread into the mosquito population. After an investigation, the factors that may have hindered the Wolbachia invasion were identified. Further releases of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes are currently underway in the same community.
Scientists have discovered that viruses can use their own proteins to inhibit the host's defense systems. One example is the vaccinia B1 Ser/Thr kinase, which impairs a specific aspect of the host's antiviral response. B1 is highly conserved among poxviruses that infect mammals, with only a few exceptions. However, it's important to understand how this protein is regulated and what evolutionary mechanisms may have driven its conservation in all kingdoms of life. To do this, scientists have investigated the vaccinia B1-related kinases (VRKs) that share at least one common substrate with B1. By studying a B1-deficient virus, scientists have found that a loss of function mutation in the B12 locus provides a striking fitness enhancement. They have also discovered that B12 primarily localizes to the nucleus and that expression of wild-type B12 leads to a marked reduction in fitness of viruses with a defect in B1. Together, these findings present novel evidence that a paralogous kinase-pseudokinase pair can exhibit an epistatic relationship in a virus. This relationship may be important for enhancing B1 conservation during poxvirus evolution and for orchestrating nuclear events during infection.
A new study used computer simulations to investigate how the environment affects the folding, aggregation, and partitioning of two synthetic peptides, LK and EALA. Both peptides are modeled after natural peptides that cause neurodegenerative diseases and are able to form aggregates. The study looked at how the peptides behave when placed in bulk water, as well as when placed at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces, such as the air/water interface or the presence of another peptide molecule. The study found that the peptides exhibit a highly dynamic conformational behavior with a significant amount of intrinsic disorder. However, the presence of interfaces or oligomerization had a significant impact on the folding equilibrium, potentially triggering the formation of toxic species.
In 2012, researchers found that HHV-6A and HHV-6B were different viruses that have different DNA sequences and characteristics. Most adults have HHV-6B in their bodies. HHV-6B usually causes a mild illness in children called "sixth disease" and can sometimes cause seizures or encephalitis (a brain infection). HHV-6A's disease association and epidemiology are not well known, but it can cause lymphoproliferative disorders. When the viruses enter the body for the first time, they establish latency (a period of inactivity) so they can persist in the body for life. Researchers found that both viruses integrate (attach to) human chromosomes, but they do not make circular copies of the virus. They also found that the viruses can integrate into germ cells, causing inherited chromosomally integrated HHV-6 (iciHHV-6), which is present in about 1% of people. A recent study found that 41% of iciHHV-6A and 59% of iciHHV-6B cases occur in the human population. When the viruses reactivate from their latent state, they can cause diseases, such as encephalitis and infections following transplantation. However, the mechanism of how these viruses integrate into human chromosomes is still unknown. In this study, researchers created recombinant viruses that lacked the TMR (telomeric repeats) or only had the perfect TMR (pTMR) or imperfect TMR (impTMR). They found that the TMR are essential for efficient virus integration and that the pTMR are the key component for integration, while the impTMR only play a minor role. This study provides the first molecular evidence of the HHV-6A integration mechanism and the viral sequence elements that facilitate its integration.
Poxviruses are a family of viruses that can cause serious illness in humans, and vaccinia virus is one type of poxvirus. The process of creating vaccinia virus is multi-step and involves the formation of different types of particles. Scientists have been studying vaccinia virus for a long time using electron microscopy, and they have learned about the process of creating the different types of particles. However, they still do not know how the particles are formed, especially the crescents and immature particles. Recent studies suggest that the membrane surrounding these particles comes from open-ended lipid sheets, and not from flattened double membranes as was previously thought. The D13 protein is a protein that is important for creating these particles, but it is not clear how it works. Scientists have now determined the structure of the D13 protein, and they have learned about its ability to remodel membranes.
The root system is essential for plants to grow and survive, as it provides them with water, nutrients, and other resources. The way that roots grow and branch is influenced by the soil's nutrient distribution. Plants can only respond to changes in nutrient availability within their genetic limits, which means that developing plants with better root systems can be beneficial for crops. We know a lot about how root growth and branching are controlled from studies on the Arabidopsis plant model system, and this information has helped us understand how these processes work in other plants like rice and maize. Many genes involved in root growth and branching produce proteins that have regulatory functions. These proteins often work in pathways that involve plant hormones, such as auxin and ethylene. For example, a mutation in a gene that encodes a protein involved in auxin biosynthesis can result in a plant with no roots. In this study, we describe a mutation in a Brachypodium gene called BdTAR2L that affects how roots grow and branch. The Bdtar2l mutant has a normal shoot, but its roots grow slowly and in strange patterns. This mutation seems to be affecting the way that auxin is distributed within the plant, which could be why the roots are growing so differently.
Biological traits can change in response to changing environments or genetic mutations, and these changes occur on different time scales. Regulatory mechanisms control how an organism adapts to changing conditions, while genetic mutations alter phenotypes over long time scales. Genes with regulatory variance that need to be buffered against environmental or stochastic changes are harder to change through genetic mutations. Moreover, regulatory variance can direct evolutionary dynamics by identifying the directions that are most likely to change. Recent studies in yeast have linked the evolutionary divergence of gene expression to the structure of promoter nucleosomes and highlighted the role of gene expression in generating phenotypic diversity. In yeast, genes with low regulatory variance (DPN genes) have a pronounced proximal NFR and tend to have a TATA box in their promoters, while genes with high regulatory variance (OPN genes) are more responsive to environmental changes and have a higher cell-to-cell variability (noise). The increased divergence of OPN genes may be due to their highly responsive promoters, which are more sensitive to random mutations and non-linear interactions between promoter nucleosomes and transcription factors. Alternatively, DPN and OPN genes may be subject to different selection pressures, where changes in the expression of DPN genes are more deleterious and therefore removed more efficiently by purifying selection, whereas mutations in OPN genes may contribute more to evolutionary adaptation. In this study, the authors artificially selected for high expression of GFP-fused yeast proteins and examined the genomic response to this selection. The expression of dozens of GFP-fused proteins was successfully increased regardless of their promoter class. However, promoter class influenced the genetic changes leading to increased expression: selection for high expression of DPN genes resulted in duplication of large genomic regions, whereas large-scale duplications were less prevalent in OPN genes, which primarily changed their expression through trans mutations. When selection was removed, DPN strains reverted back to wild-type expression levels, whereas OPN strains did not, indicating that promoter organization impacts early evolutionary dynamics and biases the path of long-term evolution.
Human T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1) causes a blood cancer called adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. It does this by infecting certain types of white blood cells and causing them to grow and divide uncontrollably. The virus has a protein called Tax that helps it spread and grow inside the body. Tax also makes it easier for the virus to copy itself. Tax works by stimulating a molecule inside the cells called NF-κB. NF-κB is like a switch that tells the body to make more of certain proteins. Tax helps turn NF-κB on, which leads to the body making more of the proteins it needs to fight off the virus. However, Tax also causes other problems, such as rapid aging and cell death. The virus has another protein called HBZ that can help turn NF-κB off, which helps the virus grow and expand without causing rapid aging or cell death.
The ability to adjust to uncertain, changing, and open-ended environments is a characteristic of human intelligence. This involves using and updating multiple strategies to achieve a goal. In natural situations, such as selling lottery tickets, we often adjust, switch, and create new strategies. The frontal lobe is responsible for driving action based on task sets, which are active representations of behavioral strategies stored in long-term memory. Reinforcement learning (RL) models suggest that the frontal executive function adjusts these task sets to maximize action utility, and uncertainty monitoring (UM) models indicate that the frontal executive function monitors the task set's reliability for resetting it when it becomes unreliable. However, these models do not explain how the frontal executive function manages an expanding repertoire of behavioral strategies and decides to create new ones rather than simply adjusting and switching between previously learned ones. The PROBE model proposes a computational formulation of how the frontal executive function manages an expanding repertoire of behavioral strategies and controls the selection, learning, retrieval, and creation of behavioral strategies that drive action. The PROBE model is tested in a behavioral experiment inspired by the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, and it is compared to alternative models. The results show that unlike these alternative models, the PROBE model best fits human data and has a monitoring capacity of three or four task sets.
This study proposes a computational approach to simulate and predict the long-term effects of pharmacological interventions on biological systems. The approach, called Analysis of Dynamic Adaptations in Parameter Trajectories (ADAPT), uses a mathematical model of metabolic pathways in the liver to predict changes in metabolite concentrations and fluxes over time. The model parameters, such as reaction rate constants, are allowed to vary in time and are optimized to match the experimental data obtained during different stages of the treatment. The approach allows for the identification of the pathway adaptations that occur as a result of the pharmacological treatment without the need for developing detailed kinetic models of the modulating mechanisms. The study applies this approach to a model of mouse hepatic lipid and plasma lipoprotein metabolism to identify the adaptations that occur upon pharmacological treatment with the liver X receptor agonist T0901317. The results show a decrease in the expression of scavenger receptor class B1, a receptor that facilitates the uptake of cholesterol from high-density-lipoproteins (HDL) by the liver. This prediction was experimentally confirmed by immunoblot analysis of SR-B1 protein expression in hepatic membranes. The study provides an integrative understanding of the dynamic response induced by the pharmacological treatment that was not directly apparent from the experimental data. The approach may be useful for investigating metabolic pathways in relation to progressive diseases such as Type 2 Diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
This paper focuses on how the cerebellum processes information from multiple sources to coordinate movements. The paper discusses the spinocerebellar and spino-reticulo-cerebellar systems, which are major sources of mossy fiber (MF) inputs for the cerebellum. The paper also discusses how these systems receive sensory feedback and motor command components, and how this information is combined before it reaches the cerebellum. The paper also explores how the cerebellum integrates this information to generate useful functions and how non-linear interactions between input dimensions are handled in the spinal circuitry and the cerebellum. The paper concludes by discussing the limitations of these systems in handling non-linear interactions.
The study is focused on the spread of vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, dengue, and chikungunya, which are a major economic burden in tropical and sub-tropical regions, particularly in Asia. India, for example, is predicted to have the maximum global burden of dengue, and nearly half of the global population is at risk for vivax malaria. There are no vaccines available for these infections, and the only effective measure for disease control is vector control. Transmission blocking approaches show promise in laboratory conditions, emphasizing the importance of understanding vector-pathogen dynamics for effective control strategies. Mosquitoes play a significant role in disease transmission in humans, and their response to pathogens is driven by fundamental biological processes such as blood feeding for egg development and defense against microbial invaders. The study used deep sequencing to identify mosquito host miRNAs that may be impacted during chikungunya infection. Aedes albopictus cells were infected with chikungunya virus, and the study identified several Aedes known and novel miRNAs that were profiled during the CHIKV infection. The study also highlights the repertoire of common and distinct host miRNAs regulated during Plasmodium and CHIKV infections in their respective hosts. Additionally, the study predicts the targets of some of these miRNAs, shedding light on their potential role during pathogen infection in mosquitoes.
Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a zoonotic disease caused by the larval form of the tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus. The parasite's life cycle involves livestock and dogs as the primary intermediate and definitive hosts, respectively. Humans can also become infected by ingesting infective parasite eggs. The parasite typically develops into a cyst, which can put pressure on surrounding tissues and cause anaphylactic shock if it ruptures. Cystic echinococcosis is highly endemic in Iran, where many species of intermediate host are commonly infected with E. granulosus. The disease can cause significant monetary losses for affected individuals, their families, and the community as a whole. Recently, the World Health Organization has included CE in its list of Neglected Tropical Diseases to be addressed in its strategic plan for control of NTDs. Although CE is assumed to be a significant public health and economic problem in Iran, the extent of its socioeconomic impact is not fully understood. The purpose of this study is to estimate the monetary burden of CE in Iran using existing country-level data on human and animal CE.
The Merkel cell polyomavirus (MPyV) is a small virus that infects human skin cells. During the early phase of infection, the virus produces three proteins from one region of its DNA. These proteins cause the infected cell to start growing. Later, the virus produces more proteins that help it replicate its DNA and make new viruses. A study used deep sequencing to look at how the genes of the virus and the host cell changed during infection. They found that many host cell genes were turned up or down, and that some of the changes were related to how the virus replicates itself. They also found that the virus changed the way it made some of its proteins, and that the changes were related to how the virus replicates itself. The virus also changed the way it makes some of its proteins, and this also affects how it replicates itself.
In this paper, the authors present a mathematical model that can be used to determine the fuel requirements and associated performance limitations of any endurance runner over a range of distances. They use a combination of the aerobic capacity, the energetic cost of running, and the size of the carbohydrate and fat energy reservoirs to make these predictions. The model allows for personalized answers to the questions of how much carbohydrate a runner needs for a given distance and how a runner can avoid exhausting his or her carbohydrate reserves before completing the race. The authors also use the model to reveal the functional dependencies of the distance required to run glycogen stores to depletion and the fastest pace at which a given distance can be run without exhausting glycogen stores. Finally, they show how individual physiologic variation and the population distribution of aerobic capacities limit marathon finishing times and how these limitations can be used to establish marathon qualifying standards.
Toxoplasma is a parasite that affects a wide range of animals. It can cause serious illness or even death in humans, particularly in immunocompromised individuals and in congenital infections. Some strains of Toxoplasma are more virulent (cause more severe disease) than others, and different strains can affect disease in different ways. Researchers have been studying how different strains of Toxoplasma affect human cells. They have found that the parasite modifies human cells in different ways depending on the strain. This research provides insight into why different strains of Toxoplasma can cause different symptoms and severity of disease in humans.
The paper is about how viruses change and evolve over time. This happens because when they replicate, sometimes they can swap parts of their DNA or RNA with other viruses. This process is called "recombination." There are two ways that recombination can happen. The first is that a virus's DNA polymerase (an enzyme that helps copy DNA) can switch templates while making a copy of the virus's DNA. The second is that two different viruses' DNAs can be joined together by a cellular enzyme. In this paper, the authors describe a new way to study how recombination happens in viruses. They use a special system that allows them to study only the recombinant viruses, without the parent viruses getting in the way. This allows them to better understand how recombination happens and how these new viruses behave.
Obesity is a major health risk factor that causes diseases such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and liver disease. Fat is stored in the body in adipose tissue (AT), which can be divided into three types: white, brown, and beige AT. White AT stores energy as fat and can be broken down by lipolysis. Brown AT generates heat to maintain body temperature, especially during cold temperatures. Beige AT is a type of brown AT that can be made from white AT when it is exposed to cold temperatures or other stimuli. This process is called beiging and can help counteract obesity and its related diseases. To beiging, white AT is stimulated by chemicals like norepinephrine (NE) that activate β-adrenergic receptors (β-ARs). This stimulation leads to an increase in cAMP, which causes protein kinase A (PKA) to become active. PKA then promotes the expression of genes involved in thermogenesis, such as UCP1, PGC1α, and DIO2. However, the process of NE clearance is also important because if too much NE is present in the area around the β-AR, it can cause damage. The researchers found that a type of transporter called OCT3 is involved in the clearance of NE from adipose tissue. Mice with knockouts of this gene did not clear NE as well as normal mice, which caused a higher expression of thermogenesis, mitochondria biogenesis, and glycolysis genes in their white fat. The researchers also found that people with a certain genetic variation in the OCT3 gene had a higher BMR, which is a measure of the amount of energy used by the body at rest. This suggests that OCT3 plays an important role in regulating energy expenditure pathways.
HP1 proteins are important regulators of chromatin structure and gene expression in mammalian cells. There are three HP1 isoforms (HP1α, HP1β, and HP1γ) in mammals, all of which are found in dense heterochromatin as well as in the rest of the nucleus. HP1 proteins are thought to regulate enzymatic activities involved in gene expression, but are not "chromatin condensers" per se. HP1 proteins contain two domains, the chromo-domain (CD) and the chromoshadow-domain (CSD), separated by a hinge region. The CSD is necessary for dimerization and recruitment of HP1 proteins to DNA damage sites. The CD recognizes and binds histone H3 tails methylated on lysine 9 (K9), which is frequently associated with transcriptional repression. HP1 proteins bind weakly to reconstituted methylated nucleosomal arrays, but more efficiently to native chromatin. HP1 proteins interact with several molecular partners, including the hSWI/SNF complex. HP1 proteins and hSWI/SNF have opposite effects on chromatin structure and gene expression.
The article explains how RNA molecules have a specific structure that is crucial for their function. Different types of RNA molecules, such as tRNA, rRNA, and miRNA, have unique structures that allow them to do specific tasks. The article discusses the different ways in which RNA molecules can be modified to change their structure or function, and how these modifications can be used to treat diseases. The article also explains how the different types of RNA molecules are made and how they are related to each other. The article concludes by emphasizing the importance of RNA molecules in biology and medicine.
This study aims to understand how plants recognize and defend themselves against necrotrophic fungal pathogens such as Botrytis cinerea. The authors find that the plant recognizes fungal cell wall components and fungal enzymes that are essential for their growth and reproduction. The authors also identify four transcription factors that are important for resistance to B. cinerea and Plectosphaerella cucumerina. These transcription factors are named WAK1, BIK1, MAPK, and WRKY33. The authors then identify a set of genes that are commonly up-regulated in these four transcription factor mutants, and they name these genes PROVIR factors. The authors find that many of these PROVIR factors also function in disease susceptibility to fungal necrotrophic pathogens. Lastly, the authors use in vivo localization studies to show that many of the PROVIR factors are located in the pericellular space of plants.
The uterine endometrium (the layer of tissue lining the uterus) is receptive to an implanting embryo only during a specific time in the menstrual cycle. This time is called the "window of receptivity" and is critical for the embryo to attach to the uterine wall. During this time, the embryo and endometrium interact to prepare for the implantation of the embryo. These interactions require a complex set of genes and proteins to work together. Scientists have identified a protein called FOXO1 that plays a role in these interactions. They found that FOXO1 is present in the endometrium during the window of receptivity in humans and mice. When FOXO1 was removed from the endometrium in mice, the implantation of the embryo failed. The scientists also identified several genes that were affected by the removal of FOXO1 and that may play a role in the implantation process. They found that one of these genes, PGR, was also affected by the removal of FOXO1 and that PGR may be a marker for the window of receptivity in both humans and mice.
Dengue is a dangerous disease caused by a virus and spread by mosquitoes. Bangladesh has seen cases of dengue since 2000, but there is not enough information about how many cases are actually happening. We used a special kind of math to look at the relationship between the number of dengue cases, the weather, and the population of Bangladesh. We used this information to make maps of where dengue is most common in Bangladesh. These maps will help doctors and health workers know where to focus their efforts to stop the spread of dengue.
When introduced into a new environment, rats have a preferred place that they visit most often and stay in for the longest time. This preferred place is established early in the session and influences the overall behavior of the rats. Scientists have tried to find similar behavior in mice, but they haven't been successful. However, when scientists injected mice with saline and placed them in an open field arena, the mice established a preferred place that they visited occasionally. Scientists called this behavior "knot-scribbling" because the mice traced a twisting and turning path in the preferred place. This behavior was also found in intact mice, but it wasn't as pronounced as in saline-injected mice. To find this behavior, scientists measured the curvature of the path and looked for areas with the highest curvature. They then used algorithms to define the boundaries of the knot and measure some of its features. Finally, scientists asked whether the knot had the same features as the preferred place in rats and considered its function.
In this study, the authors describe the discovery of a new drug target for treating fungal infections. The drug target is a protein called Sec14p, which is involved in the secretion of molecules that help the fungus survive and grow. The authors found a compound, called NGx04, that inhibits the activity of Sec14p and showed that this compound can effectively treat fungal infections. The authors used a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques to study the mode of action of NGx04 and found that it works by blocking the activity of Sec14p. They also showed that NGx04 is effective against both laboratory strains of fungi and clinical isolates, which are strains that have been isolated from patients with fungal infections. The authors also discovered that NGx04 can even treat strains of fungi that are resistant to other drugs. Overall, this study provides evidence that NGx04 can be used as a new drug to treat fungal infections.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that affects over 200 million people worldwide and can cause serious complications such as liver and intestinal fibrosis. The main treatment is a single drug, praziquantel, but there is a need for new drugs to be developed. Some antimalarial drugs have also shown promise against schistosomiasis, and we tested one such drug, mefloquine, against two different species of schistosomes (S. mansoni and S. japonicum). We found that mefloquine was effective against both juvenile and adult worms, but had a stronger effect on juvenile worms. Additionally, we examined the stage-specific susceptibility of S. mansoni to mefloquine and found that the ( + ) and ( − ) erythro enantiomers had different effects on different stages of the parasite. Overall, our results suggest that mefloquine could be a promising new drug for treating schistosomiasis.
Podoconiosis is a non-infectious disease that affects people who are in long-term contact with irritant red clay soil of volcanic origin. This disease has been reported in over 30 countries worldwide and it is estimated that there are 4 million cases. The most affected countries are Ethiopia, Cameroon, Uganda, Burundi, and Rwanda. However, the precise distribution and the geographical limits of the disease are unknown. In Cameroon, one of the major differential diagnoses of podoconiosis is lymphatic filariasis. To determine the prevalence and distribution of podoconiosis in Cameroon, a nationwide mapping survey was conducted in 2016 targeting three intensive case management diseases (ICM-NTDs). The results of the study will help in developing an efficient and cost-effective podoconiosis control and elimination program.
In the past, it has been observed that the pool of stem cells diminishes during aging. This happens for satellite stem cells, male and female germline stem cells, and C. elegans germline stem cells. The communication between stem cells and their surrounding niche is important for maintaining stem cell identity, and during aging, the communication between these cells is compromised. There is a lack of information about whether stem cells influence their own attachment to the niche during aging. Additionally, it is unclear how the stem cells and the surrounding niche cells communicate with each other during aging. Drosophila is an excellent model to study this communication, as it has a short lifespan, genetic approaches are available, and the ovary contains well-characterized germline stem cells (GSCs) and their niche. The niche of Drosophila ovaries is made up of terminal filament, cap cells, and anterior escort cells. GSCs attach directly to cap cells through E-cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion, and the GSC fusome, an organelle, is juxtaposed to the interface between cap cell and GSC. When GSCs divide, they give rise to cystoblasts, which undergo four rounds of incomplete division to form a 16-cell cyst. The 16-cell cyst is surrounded by follicle cells and eventually develops into a mature egg. The Notch signaling pathway is highly conserved and plays critical roles in the regulation of stem cells in different systems. In Drosophila, Notch controls the maintenance of niche cap cells, but it is not clear if it plays a role in GSCs. Drosophila has one Notch receptor (encoded by Notch), which is a single-pass transmembrane protein. The extracellular domain of Notch is composed of several epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like repeats, which must be highly glycosylated for proper function of the protein. Fringe (encoded by fng) is a glycosyltransferase that adds N-acetylglucosamine onto this domain, thereby modulating the binding of Notch to its ligands. The insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling pathway is also evolutionarily conserved, and it controls various stem cell types in response to nutritional input and aging. Previously, it was observed that insulin signaling controls Fringe-mediated Notch activation in the GSC niche, which is required to maintain niche integrity, thereby supporting the retention of GSCs in the niche. In addition, insulin signaling directly controls GSC proliferation. In this article, the authors demonstrate that insulin and Notch signaling have independent roles in regulating GSCs, in contrast to the earlier observation that insulin signaling regulates Notch activation in niche cells to support their maintenance. While insulin/IGF signaling is required for GSC proliferation and maintenance, Notch signaling underlies the diminished ability of GSCs to occupy the niche during aging. In young ovaries, Notch signaling in GSCs is low, allowing them to persist in the niche; as ovaries age, Notch signaling in GSCs is elevated, resulting in the loss of GSCs from the niche. In contrast to GSCs, Notch signaling in niche cells (which is required for niche integrity) is decreased with age, thus contributing to age-induced GSC loss. The authors demonstrate that both intrinsic and extrinsic Notch signaling control the niche residency of GSCs during aging.
Human herpesviruses are a large family of viruses that infect cells, cause disease, and can be life-threatening in people with weakened immune systems. Many proteins encoded by these viruses have kinase activity, meaning they can phosphorylate other proteins to control cellular functions such as gene expression, DNA replication, and cell cycle progression. However, not all herpesvirus kinases are the same. We found that some herpesvirus kinases, called CHPKs, can phosphorylate the tumor suppressor protein Rb, disrupt the nuclear lamina, and function as cellular Cdks. However, other CHPKs do not have these functions, even though they are similar in sequence and structure. These findings show that herpesvirus kinases can have different functions and substrates, even if they are closely related.
Melioidosis is a disease caused by a bacterium called Burkholderia pseudomallei. It is found in the environment and people get it by coming into contact with it. The bacteria can enter the body through the skin, inhalation, or ingestion. Most cases of the disease have been reported from Southeast Asia and northern Australia, but it is also found in many other parts of the world. Scientists want to create a map of where the bacteria is found to help people in those areas take steps to prevent the disease. However, the methods used to find the bacteria are not standardized and vary greatly, making it difficult to create an accurate map. Scientists have come together to create guidelines on how to find the bacteria in the environment in a standardized way. These guidelines will be made freely available to the scientific community and will help to ensure that the map of where the bacteria is found is accurate.
Membrane fusion is a crucial step for the entry of many viruses into cells, including those with envelopes. This process is facilitated by a viral fusion protein that is activated in response to specific molecular cues. The Flaviviruses are a group of insect-borne viruses that have positive-strand RNA genomes and a fusion protein called E. The E protein is responsible for forming the outer layer of the virion. When the pH drops below 6.2, the E protein undergoes a large-scale conformational change, allowing fusion to occur. CryoEM reconstructions have shown that in the prefusion dimer, the stem segment folds into a helical loop and the fusion loop is located at the tip of domain II. In the postfusion conformation, the fusion loops and the transmembrane anchors cluster at one end of the rearranged protein. By blocking the zipping-up step in the refolding process, soluble forms of domain III or the stem can inhibit viral fusion. Stem peptides have also been shown to inhibit viral infectivity by binding the virion at neutral pH before cell attachment and internalizing along with the virus into endosomes. Hydrophobic interactions between the C-terminal segment of the peptide and the viral membrane contribute to virion binding and hence to inhibiting infection. Sequence-specific contacts may also have a role in initial binding.
This article presents a new way to study the spread of cholera using a technique called whole genome sequencing (WGS). Cholera is a serious disease that causes diarrhea, and it affects millions of people worldwide. WGS helps researchers understand how the disease spreads and evolves over time. They can use this information to improve how they prevent and treat cholera. The article describes how WGS can be used on dried stool samples collected on filter paper, even if there is no cold chain transport or laboratory capacity nearby. This is important because cholera often strikes in remote areas where it can be difficult to collect and transport stool samples. By using this new technique, researchers can study cholera in more places and get a better understanding of how it spreads. This information can help them develop better ways to treat and prevent cholera.
A recent study has shown that Dynein, a minus-end-directed microtubule motor, plays an important role in apico-basal polarity in Drosophila follicle cells. The researchers found that Dynein is required for the proper localization of a protein called StarDust (Sdt) in the apical plasma membrane. Sdt is a key component of the Crumbs complex, which helps maintain epithelial polarity. Further experiments revealed that an alternatively spliced coding exon in Sdt mRNA acts as an apical localization signal. The presence of this exon is required during early stages of epithelial development, but is not necessary in mature epithelia. These findings suggest that the strategy for apical targeting of the Crumbs complex changes during epithelial maturation.
Leishmania is a type of parasite that causes several diseases in poor countries. It can survive in both the sand fly vector and in the mammalian host. In humans, different clinical forms of the disease can occur. Visceral leishmaniasis is a severe form that can be fatal if not treated. Genetic population studies of different human strains of Leishmania have revealed that genetic exchange may occur during the mating process. This is supported by experimental studies using genetically modified Leishmania strains, which have allowed the visualization and recovery of the progeny after experimental crosses. Additionally, naturally occurring hybrid genotypes have been identified in field isolates involving different species of the Leishmania (Viannia) subgenus. These findings suggest that Leishmania is able to perform genetic exchange between the same genotype during the mating process.
Leishmania donovani complex is the main cause of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a disease that is invariably fatal if not treated properly. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that there are around 2-400,000 cases of VL and 20,000 deaths every year, with most cases occurring in Brazil, the Indian subcontinent, and East Africa. In East Africa, VL is caused by L. donovani, while in other regions, where VL is caused by L. infantum, this disease is a zoonosis with dogs and wild canids acting as reservoir hosts. In Ethiopia, VL is distributed throughout the lowlands, with the most important foci found in northwestern and southwestern parts of the country. Recent studies using multiple molecular markers have shown that East African strains of the L. donovani complex are now classified in one group as L. donovani s. s. Several of these studies identify genetically distinct populations among the L. donovani complex associated with different geographic regions. A recent study using 14 unlinked microsatellite markers of 90 East African strains, including 63 new isolates from Ethiopia, showed that L. donovani can be divided into two genetically distinct populations, Sudan plus NW and Kenya plus SW. The repeat region of the L. donovani and L. infantum HASPB protein is recognized by human and canine VL sera and has been used with varying success for serodiagnosis. A specific PCR targeting the L. donovani complex HASPB repeat region (k26-PCR) was shown to distinguish between L. donovani and L. infantum strains, grouping them according to the size of the amplicon. In this study, the authors characterized 63 recent L. donovani strains from Ethiopia using k26-PCR and high resolution melt (HRM) analysis. Several strains from Kenya, Sudan, and India were also included for comparison. Analysis by these techniques split the Ethiopian strains into groups that are correlated with the geographic origin of the parasite strain. DNA sequencing of the amplicons showed that the number and organization of the peptide motifs comprising the L. donovani HASPB repeat domain vary with the geographic origin of the strain. The potential effect of k26 polymorphism on the use of HASPB for serodiagnosis and vaccination is discussed.
HIV, or human immunodeficiency virus, causes AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) and changes very quickly because of the error-prone nature of reverse transcriptase and its tendency to switch between RNA templates. These mutational events, combined with high levels of viral turnover and diversifying selection from the immune response, create extreme diversity within infected individuals and in the pandemic as a whole. HIV-1, the virus that causes AIDS, has different subtypes, which form distinct clusters in phylogenetic trees. When a person is infected with two viruses from different subtypes, recombination can occur, generating inter-subtype recombinant forms, which are called circulating recombinant forms (CRFs). These recombinant forms have the potential to be of epidemiological significance and to have novel properties that led directly to their prevalence. However, it is widely assumed that recombination has limited biological significance, and most recombination breakpoints are selectively neutral. We tested this hypothesis using a probabilistic model for the copy-choice recombination process, which takes into account the local sequence identity between the co-packaged RNA genomes and produces an expected null distribution of breakpoints across two parental sequences. We generated this distribution using 162 laboratory-generated inter-subtype recombinants where no selection was applied to the recombinant products. We then compared this distribution with the observed recombinant breakpoints from the global HIV-1/AIDS pandemic. Our results strongly indicate that the most important recombination breakpoints are approximately on either side of the envelope gene, or at least gp120, which is involved in immune evasion.
The paper discusses the use of computational models to analyze data in various fields of neuroscience, such as decision neuroscience, psychiatry, and neuroimaging. Computational models are used to analyze behavioral and brain imaging data, and often rely on free parameters that vary across individuals and need to be estimated from data. However, capturing individual variation is a key challenge in parameter estimation and model comparison. Hierarchical models are used to characterize parameters in a population and each individual subject’s parameters given the population distribution. The paper presents a new method called Hierarchical Bayesian Inference (HBI) that addresses this challenge. HBI is a fully Bayesian approach that solves the problems of model fitting and model comparison within the same framework using variational techniques. The paper also introduces a new statistical test, the HBI t-test, which enables inference about parameters of a model at the population level. The paper demonstrates the advantages of the proposed method using synthetic choice datasets as well as empirical datasets.
The mammalian brainstem plays a crucial role in controlling vital functions. It contains a complex system of reflex arcs and relays information to higher brain centers through interconnected neuronal circuits. The rhombomeres (r) are subdivisions of the hindbrain along the antero-posterior (A-P) axis, which are segregated into modules of progenitor cells. Individual rhombomeres give rise to distinct portions of sensory and motor columns depending on their position along the dorso-ventral (D-V) axis. These progenitor cells eventually develop into nuclei of multi-segmental origin and topographic patterns of connectivity. For example, the facial somatosensory map is generated by afferent innervation from mandibular or whisker pad (maxillary) facial dermatomes targeting the r2- or r3-derived components of the principal trigeminal sensory nucleus. The cochlear complex, which is the primary relay station for central auditory processing, originates from different rhombomeres. The central auditory pathway includes the sensory organ for sound, the cochlea, which contains two types of receptors, the inner and outer hair cells. From the periphery, sound information travels through the VIIIth cranial nerve to the brainstem cochlear nuclear complex. A significant portion of the cochlear complex derives from a dorsal rim of neuroepithelium referred to as the auditory lip. The MOC reflex and the MEM reflex are two parallel sound-evoked feedback mechanisms acting on the auditory periphery to modulate incoming acoustic stimuli. The Hox genes are a large family of homeobox-containing genes that display rhombomere-restricted expression patterns and provide early patterning information to progenitors and their neuronal derivatives. In this study, the authors carried out a detailed fate map of r4 derivatives by generating a novel, highly restricted, r4-specific Cre-recombinase driver. They found that cells originating from r4 significantly contribute to the VLL, an important relay station in the sound perception pathway. In Hoxb1 and Hoxb2 mutants, the VLL, PVCN, and MOC motor neurons are selectively affected, though with different severities. Early conditional Hoxa2 inactivation in rhombic-lip derivatives selectively perturbs the AVCN axonal pathfinding to the MNTB, resulting in decreased contralateral and increased ipsilateral targeting of MNTB due to the down-regulation of Rig1, the main axon guidance receptor for midline crossing. Altogether, this study provides genetic and functional evidence for a Hox gene network in the establishment and maintenance of proper auditory rhombomere-specific circuitry during hindbrain development.
Scientists have studied how CO2 is fixed by prokaryotes on land, in the oceans, and in the air. They have also studied which bacteria break down complex polysaccharides, such as those found in algae and higher plants, and release CO2 back into the atmosphere. However, they have not yet studied which bacteria break down these complex polysaccharides in the oceans. Recently, a bacterium called Saccharophagus degradans strain 2-40T (Sde 2-40) was found to be able to break down these complex polysaccharides in the oceans. This bacterium was isolated from decaying salt marsh cord grass in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. It is a pleomorphic, Gram-negative, aerobic, motile gamma-Proteobacterium that has 4008 genes in a single replicon consisting of 5.06 million bases. The bacterium has an extraordinary variety of depolymerases and an unusual number of open reading frames coding for complex polysaccharide depolymerases. These carbohydrases and related proteins comprise 10% of the genome and have unique modularity, architecture, and a remarkable proportion of membrane targeting domains. Although such an arrangement is limited to a few taxa, bacteria within these taxa appear to be widely distributed in marine and estuarine waters. Sde 2-40 has the potential to have a significant role in the marine carbon cycle, functioning as a "super-degrader" and mediating the breakdown of complex polysaccharides from plants, algae, and invertebrates.
JEV is a type of encephalitis virus that is transmitted from mosquitoes to humans and animals. The virus is carried by several mosquito species, including Culex (Cx.) mosquitoes. The virus has been found in more than 24 countries in the South Asia and Western Pacific regions. There are five different genotypes of JEV, but the most dominant strain is genotype III (GIII). Recently, a new genotype, genotype I (GI), has emerged and has replaced GIII. The GI virus has a higher replication rate in mosquitoes, which may explain why it has been spreading faster than GIII. The virus has been found in 17 species of Cx. mosquitoes, including Cx. pipiens, which is commonly found in China. The study found that both GI and GIII JEV are transmitted to humans by Cx. pipiens mosquitoes.
Dengue is a dangerous disease that is spread by mosquitoes and has become a serious problem around the world. There are four different types of dengue viruses that can cause severe symptoms, and it is estimated that over 3.6 billion people are at risk of getting it. Since the first outbreak in Malaysia in 1902, dengue has been a notifiable infection in the country since 1973. In recent years, the number of cases has increased rapidly, with over 108,698 cases reported in 2014. While the case fatality ratio has remained low, it is concerning that the disease is becoming more severe and is affecting a wider range of ages. Currently, there is no cure for dengue, and only supportive treatments are available. This review aims to understand more about the epidemiology, clinical characteristics, and causes of death in fatal dengue cases in Malaysia during 2013 and 2014.
The study aims to understand why certain traits are used by animals to assess the quality of a potential mate. The study focuses on Drosophila melanogaster, the fruit fly, where the attractiveness of females is believed to be related to their reproductive potential. However, it is not entirely clear how attractive traits are linked to fecundity. The study proposes that the insulin signaling pathway, a central nutrient-sensing pathway in many animals, affects both the composition of the female pheromone profile and the male attractiveness. Insulin signaling can influence the expression of genes that encode enzymes that synthesize cuticular hydrocarbons in the fruit fly. The study proposes that flies and beetles may have evolved to read insulin pathway activity in different forms as an honest and accurate metric of reproductive potential. The study aims to investigate the tissue-specific effects of insulin signaling on reproductive potential and attractiveness in Drosophila melanogaster.
The Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak that started in Guinea in December 2013 quickly spread to Liberia and Sierra Leone, becoming the largest EVD epidemic ever observed. This study used district-level data to investigate local outbreaks and risk factors for EVD transmission during the 2013–2015 epidemic. By quantifying the transmissibility of EVD, this study aimed to provide insights that could improve epidemic management in the future. The study found that the basic reproduction number (R0), which describes the average number of secondary infections generated by a primary case during the initial phase of an outbreak, ranged between 1.5 and 2.5. The study used a statistical approach to estimate R0 from the generation time and the intrinsic growth rate (r), which is defined as the per capita change in case numbers per time unit and can be calculated directly from observed incident case counts. The study used a mixed effects model to take into account the hierarchical nature of subnational data and explored the relationship between R0 and socio-demographic variables as potential drivers of EVD transmission at a population-level.
Scientists have long been interested in understanding why protein evolutionary rates vary so much. Some factors that have been proposed as determinants of protein evolutionary rates include protein dispensability, number of mRNA molecules per cell, number of protein molecules per cell, codon adaptation index, number of protein-protein interactions, sequence length, role in the interaction network, and structural properties such as solvent accessibility and folding robustness. Researchers have used principal component regression analysis to disentangle these factors and found that a single component, which included codon adaptation index, protein abundance, and gene expression level, accounted for nearly half of the observed variability in protein evolution. However, expression-related factors have been measured with less noise than other possible factors. In related work, scientists observed covariation between sequence evolution, codon usage, and mRNA level among a broad range of species. They suggested there may be selection for robustness against mistranslation, since mistranslation-induced misfolding would be more deleterious for highly expressed proteins. In addition, they found that proteins with a higher fraction of exposed residues evolve faster. However, Bloom and others found the opposite pattern. Bloom et al explained this incongruence using protein designability, defined roughly as the number of sequences that can fold into a structure. They found that highly designable proteins have a higher fraction of buried residues and that highly designable proteins have stable cores, allowing the exposed residues to freely mutate without compromising stability. Researchers have also found that proteins with a higher contact density tend to evolve more rapidly in fly, yeast, E. coli, and human. Additionally, highly designable proteins have been shown to evolve more functional innovations. In this study, scientists explored the interplay between two very different factors: a protein's age and its structural properties. They found that differences in evolutionary rates previously observed among age groups could not be explained due to differences in the structural properties among age groups. Similarly, differences in rates correlated with structural differences cannot be entirely explained by the age of the PDB structure. Their results therefore reinforce the idea that there is not a single determinant of evolutionary rate, and that both intrinsic present-day properties as well as evolutionary age independently contribute to differential rates of protein evolution.
Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) helps control which genes are turned on and off during early development. PRC2 contains several important proteins, including Suz12, Eed, and Ezh2. Ezh2 adds a chemical group called methyl to lysine 27 on histone H3, which helps keep genes turned off. PRC2 also works with another protein complex called PRC1, which helps keep genes turned off. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), there is a special kind of gene regulation called bivalency, where genes are marked with both methyl and chemical groups that help keep genes turned on. CpG islands are special DNA sequences that are often found near genes and can help keep genes turned off. Pcl3 is a protein that helps PRC2 function, and removing Pcl3 from ESCs can disrupt gene regulation and lead to problems with development and differentiation. Therefore, Pcl3 is an important protein for keeping gene regulation in check in ESCs.
The article discusses how animals adjust their chemosensory behavior based on their feeding state. For example, when they are hungry, they optimize their food search strategy. To do this, animals can dynamically change the expression levels of their chemoreceptors, which are specialized receptors found in chemosensory neurons. The article explains that chemoreceptor gene expression is regulated by transcription factors, which are proteins that bind to specific regions of DNA to control gene expression. The article describes how researchers have identified specific transcription factors that regulate chemoreceptor genes in C. elegans, a type of nematode worm. They found that the bHLH family of transcription factors has important roles in regulating chemoreceptor gene expression. These proteins can form homodimers or heterodimers through interactions with other bHLH family members. The researchers found that the feeding state of the worms affects the expression levels of these proteins. They also found that some of the bHLH factors have an important role in regulating the expression of srh-234, a chemoreceptor gene specifically expressed in ADL sensory neurons. The researchers found that the expression of srh-234 is highly dependent on the feeding state of the worms. They also found that the E/Daughterless protein, HLH-2, works together with bHLH transcription factors to regulate srh-234 expression. This suggests that HLH-2 is a feeding state-dependent transcriptional regulator for chemoreceptor genes.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a disease caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium ulcerans that can cause severe damage to skin and soft tissue. BU is a neglected tropical disease that occurs in many parts of Africa, Asia, and the Pacific. In Australia, BU is primarily found in tropical areas of Queensland and Victoria. The bacteria that cause BU are closely related to the bacteria that cause a non-harmful skin infection called marine ulcer. However, M. ulcerans has a virulence plasmid that allows it to produce a lipid toxin called mycolactone. Mycolactone causes cells to die and stops the body's immune system from fighting the bacteria. It is not clear how the bacteria that cause BU are spread, but it is thought that the bacteria may be transmitted by biting insects. To determine if there is a link between the spread of M. ulcerans and the incidence of BU, the authors tested mosquitoes from different areas for the presence of the bacteria. They found that M. ulcerans DNA was present in mosquitoes from areas where BU cases were common. This provides evidence that mosquitoes may play a role in the spread of BU.
Myelin is an essential component of the nervous system of higher vertebrates. It acts as a natural insulator of axons, allowing for the maintenance of axonal integrity and the fast conduction of action potentials. In the central nervous system, myelin is produced by oligodendrocytes, while in the peripheral nervous system, this function is achieved by Schwann cells. Myelination is completed within a relatively short period of time during mammalian development, requiring a high rate of production and transport of different kinds of molecules, mostly proteins and lipids. In adult life, myelin is constantly remodeled, and the maintenance of functional myelin sheaths requires a careful balance of de novo synthesis and turnover. Any event generating an imbalance in the myelination or remyelination process has the greatest chance of inducing dys- or demyelination of either the central or peripheral nervous system. Scientists have studied the myelination process in great detail using observations from human patients affected by defects of myelination or myelin turnover, as well as animal models, such as mutant mice and rats, including those that have been induced by transgenesis or genetic engineering in ES cell lines. Unfortunately, only a small number of the many genes that are directly or indirectly involved in the myelination process have been identified, and only a few of these genes have been functionally annotated. For this reason, any new mutation occurring spontaneously or after mutagenesis is of potential interest for unraveling the molecular mechanisms involved in myelin assembly. In an earlier paper, we reported the discovery and pathology of a rat mutation designated "demyelination" (symbol dmy), which is characterized by severe and progressive myelin breakdown in the central nervous system. This demyelination syndrome appeared to be unique, with no homologue so far reported in any other mammalian species, including humans. In this report, we demonstrate that the causative gene (Mrs2) encodes a protein that is an essential component of the major electrophoretic Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria. This gene has orthologues in other organisms, including lower eukaryotes and plants. The protein shares many of the properties of bacterial CorA and yeast Alr1 proteins, but its specific involvement in the myelination process was not known or even suspected.
In recent years, scientists have used technology called microarrays to analyze and measure genes in a patient's body. This can help doctors make more accurate diagnoses, predict how well a patient will do, and decide on the best treatment. However, the technology itself can be difficult to use, and the rules for using it to make a diagnosis are not always clear or easy to follow. To help doctors better understand these rules, scientists have created something called a "signature." This is a set of rules that tell doctors how to use the technology to make a diagnosis. However, scientists need to make sure that the rules are easy to understand and follow, and that the technology itself is easy to use. This means that scientists need to make sure that the rules are well-documented, or explained in a way that is easy to understand. In this paper, scientists have looked at how well-documented signatures are in eight studies where microarray technology was used to diagnose patients. They found that many of the rules were not clearly explained, which could lead to doctors making different diagnoses than the ones the original study had made. To fix this problem, the scientists have made some recommendations for how to better document rules for using microarray technology. This should help doctors make more accurate diagnoses using this technology.
Amyloid formation is a feature of many diseases, such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, and occurs when proteins misfold and clump together in a specific way called cross-β. These clumps can be very stable and resistant to chemicals or proteases. One type of amyloid that has been studied recently is called curli, which are produced by E. coli. Researchers have now determined the structure of curli using X-ray crystallography, and they found that curli are made of tightly packed β-strands. They also found that the fibrils of curli are different from those of other types of amyloids, in that they are not made of β-strands stacked on top of each other, but instead have α-helices. These findings show that different types of amyloids have different structures, which could be important for understanding their functions and potential uses in medicine.
Japanese encephalitis (JE) is a serious illness caused by a virus spread by mosquitoes. It can lead to death in 30% of cases and cause long-term health problems in 30-50% of survivors. The disease is most common in children under the age of 15 and can be prevented through vaccination. The Philippines is believed to be endemic for JE, but the disease has not been well studied in the country. To better understand JE in the Philippines, we did a review of all the information available and collected data from JE surveillance and laboratory systems. This information will help the government decide whether to include JE vaccine in its routine immunization program.
In recent years, scientists have discovered that the vast majority of genes in living organisms are not essential for their survival and can be removed without causing significant harm. This phenomenon, known as genetic robustness, refers to a biological system's ability to continue functioning despite mutations. Environmental robustness is another type of robustness that allows organisms to withstand changes in their external environment, such as temperature, salinity, or nutrient availability. Genetic and environmental robustness are intertwined, as environmental robustness can enhance genetic robustness by providing alternative ways for an organism to survive and grow. In this study, the authors used computer modeling to examine the relationship between genetic robustness and environmental robustness. They found that environmental robustness can enhance genetic robustness in metabolic networks by providing alternative pathways for an organism to use when one pathway is no longer available due to a mutation. The authors also found that genetic robustness can be influenced by natural selection and that it can evolve as a byproduct of other, more adaptive traits. They tested their model by examining the relationship between genetic and environmental robustness in yeast and found that their model accurately predicted the results of previous experiments. The authors also used their model to examine the relationship between genetic robustness and dispensability, or the ability of an organism to survive without certain genes. They found that dispensable genes were more likely to be dispensable in different environments, suggesting that genetic robustness is a direct result of environmental robustness. The authors' findings have important implications for understanding the evolution of biological systems and the relationship between genetic and environmental robustness.
There are certain parts of the world where vaccines are less effective than others. This has been observed with vaccines against measles, polio, and typhoid. Researchers have suggested that this is because of chronic infections with parasites called helminths, which are common in those areas. These parasites may interfere with the body's ability to make a strong immune response to vaccines. A study conducted among children in Uganda found that many of them had low levels of antibodies against measles after being vaccinated. This was likely due to the fact that they had been infected with Schistosoma mansoni, a type of helminth. Researchers wanted to see if treating these children with a drug called praziquantel would improve their immune response to the measles vaccine. They found that the children who took the drug had stronger immune responses to the vaccine than those who did not.
We study how recombination affects the genetic structure of bacterial populations. Recombination causes certain populations to share genes more often with each other than with other populations. This sharing can be detected by analyzing DNA sequence data. This is important because understanding how bacteria exchange genes helps us understand how they evolve and adapt. However, analyzing this type of data is difficult because it is often unclear which populations are sharing genes and how much. To solve this problem, we use a method called BAPS, which can identify populations of bacteria based on their DNA sequences. We also introduce a new method to show how well different populations exchange genes, which can help us understand how bacterial populations are related to each other. We apply these methods to a sample of 5086 strains of Neisseria meningidis and Neisseria lactamica species. We also present analyses of simulated data to show how well our methods work on larger and more complex data sets. We show that combining different methods of analysis is the best way to understand complex genetic population structures.
Attention is important in processing sensory information. Earlier research found that neural responses in sensory cortex were different for attended and unattended stimuli. These findings suggested that signals from higher cognitive areas were delivered to lower areas when attentional gain control was required. Recent studies have shown that beta rhythms are associated with top-down attention. In this study, we used a computational model to test if top-down beta rhythms can influence neural responses. We found that beta rhythms generated in higher cortices can influence rhythm generation in lower cortices in a highly direction-specific manner. Slow-inhibitory interneurons (SI interneurons) are ideal candidates for mediating interlaminar interactions, as they receive dominant inputs from deep layers and can be depolarized by acetylcholine. Thus, we hypothesized that beta rhythms from attended stimuli can affect responses of superficial neurons in sensory cortices through SI interneurons. Our model supports this hypothesis.
The emergence of new human pathogens, such as SARS, MERS, and new strains of influenza, highlights the importance of monitoring the spread of pathogens among humans. To make informed public health decisions during the initial period of disease emergence, accurate estimates of the fundamental epidemic parameters are necessary. However, it is challenging to estimate epidemic parameters during this period because the dynamics are complex and only partially observable. Public health decision makers require tools to make inferences about the true state of the epidemic and the values of fundamental epidemic parameters using the imperfect observations available. Infection network models and compartmental transmission dynamic models are commonly used for parameter estimation and epidemic projection. Infection network models require symptom onset dates for each reported case, while compartmental transmission dynamic models divide the population into subgroups and transition between epidemic states using ordinary differential equations or Markov chains. Several methods have been developed to calibrate these models, making use of deterministic or stochastic models to describe the underlying epidemic process. Markov Chain Monte Carlo or filtering techniques are used to sample parameter space and the unobserved states. In this paper, we describe an alternative method for calibrating stochastic compartmental models using the types of data that would be available during the early period of epidemic spread. This method, Multiple Shooting for Stochastic systems (MSS), utilizes a linear noise approximation (LNA) approach and a state-updating procedure to approximate the likelihood of observations while explicitly accounting for the interdependency between subsequent epidemic observations. We use simulation experiments to compare the performance of MSS with several competing approaches in terms of accuracy in estimating parameters, predicting future behaviors, and inferring the current epidemic state. We test the sensitivity of the performance of these approaches to observational noise and model misspecification.
Short-term dependencies are psychological and cognitive phenomena in which our perception, attention, decision-making, memory, and confidence in performance are influenced by past experiences and recent stimuli. Positive serial dependence is one such phenomenon in which consecutive stimuli appear more similar than they really are, and thus past representations persist and “attract” current perceptions. Negative serial dependence, on the other hand, occurs when stimuli are repelled away from previous stimuli. Fischer and Whitney discovered that adjustment errors were systematically attracted toward the orientation of stimuli seen one or a few trials before, leading to the hypothesis of a specific neural mechanism, called the continuity field, that promotes positive serial dependence at the earliest stages of sensory coding. However, there are other forms of negative serial dependence, such as visual adaptation and aftereffects, which are opposite in direction to positive serial dependence. The question arises as to how these two contrasting forces may coexist in perceptual processing. Several studies have reported opposite effects of the recent past at different stages of processing, with repulsive biases at the early stages of perception and attractive biases emerging later and increasing in magnitude as the postperceptual time before a behavioral response increased. An alternative account has been proposed that advocates the coexistence of two types of serial dependence in perceptual judgments: negative dependence evoked by short-term adaptation and positive dependence caused by postperceptual biases in working memory. We propose and test a new account based on the notion of decisional inertia and the idea that positive serial dependence originates from the persistence of internal templates formed during the weighting of past sensory evidence into perceptual decisions, which then become attractor points for future perceptual representations. We provide compelling evidence for the existence of two separate and functionally distinct stages of visual serial dependence determined by the independent history of sensory and decisional processes. In a series of experiments, we measured the ability of human participants to reproduce the orientation of consecutive stimuli and found that past perceptual decisions, rather than physical stimuli, represent the effective sources of attractive history biases. We also found that stimulus-driven serial dependence disappeared when participants were explicitly instructed to withhold their response, whereas repulsive biases emerged under this condition. We further show that the effect of decisional traces generalizes to other tasks and stimuli and is independent of the content in visual working memory. Our work provides a new perspective on the history of sensory and decisional processes by reconciling opposite forms of short-term dependencies into a unified account of concatenated perception and decision-making.
The article introduces the concept of circadian rhythms, which are patterns of biological activities that occur with a period of 24 hours. These rhythms are controlled by a process called transcription, which involves the synthesis of specific types of proteins. The article highlights the importance of a specific protein called Clock in regulating circadian rhythms in eukaryotes. The Clock protein works together with another protein called BMAL1 in mammals or Cycle in flies to regulate the activity of other proteins that are involved in controlling circadian rhythms. The article suggests that the regulation of these proteins is important for circadian rhythms, but that other factors such as phosphorylation also play a role. The article also emphasizes the importance of studying circadian rhythms in order to understand the mechanisms that govern life.
In this study, researchers investigated how bacteria use gene transfer to acquire new genes that give them advantages over other bacteria. They found that bacteria often get their genes through horizontal gene transfer, which means that the genes come from a different species of bacteria. These new genes can give the bacteria new abilities, such as the ability to survive in new environments. The researchers wanted to know how the transfer of a new gene affects the host bacteria. They found that a gene called pmrD, which helps bacteria survive in low Mg2+ environments, was transferred from one species of bacteria to another. However, the transferred pmrD gene did not work properly in the new bacteria because the bacteria had a different version of another gene called pmrB. The researchers found that the new pmrB gene allowed the transferred pmrD gene to work properly, and this gave the bacteria the ability to survive in low Mg2+ environments. This shows that the ability of a transferred gene to give a bacteria an advantage is determined by the version of a different gene that the bacteria already had.
Cell differentiation is the process where a less specialized cell becomes a more specialized cell type, characterized by the expression of specific genes. These genes, also known as marker genes, are differentially expressed between different cell types. Traditional methods for identifying marker genes involve comparing the expression of two cell types to identify genes that are differentially expressed. However, this process can be time-consuming as many genes have already shown differential expression by the time the cell types are distinguishable. To address this issue, our study demonstrates a new statistical method that can detect marker genes at an early stage of differentiation. This method is based on measuring the average expression of a mixture of cell types, provided that enough biological replicates have been measured and statistical tests based on variance ratio have been used. Our method provides a theoretical reasoning, a statistical method, and two validation experiments that support the effectiveness of our approach.
The idea that the proteins produced by genes with variants linked to the same disease have a shared function that leads to the disease is commonly held. To investigate this further, researchers are using a technique called functional-enrichment analysis, which compares the functions of the mutated genes to determine whether they have a common function. However, researchers are unsure which datasets are most suitable for this type of analysis, and which factors may be confounding the results. In this study, researchers used various types of datasets to investigate functional associations between genes mutated in the same disease and found that they clustered more significantly in an integrated phenotypic-linkage network than in other gene networks. Additionally, the researchers identified a bias in coding-sequence length that they controlled for. They also developed a tool that can identify functional associations between genes mutated in the same disease. This tool is useful for functional subclustering of genes that underlie a polygenic disorder, and can help researchers understand the underlying mechanisms of diseases.
The current study looks at how much food and drinks were purchased in Mexico before and after a tax was put on sweetened drinks and high-energy, non-essential foods. The study also looked at how the response to the tax varied among different socioeconomic groups. The results showed that overall, purchases of taxed drinks decreased by 6% more than expected, while the purchases of other untaxed foods and drinks remained mostly unchanged. However, the study could not determine whether the decrease in purchases of taxed foods was due to the tax or other reasons. Therefore, the study looked at how different socioeconomic groups responded to the tax. The results showed that lower-income households were more responsive to the tax, while higher-income households were less responsive. This means that the tax may have been effective in reducing purchases of high-energy, non-essential foods, but only among lower-income households.
In the nervous system, noise is inevitable and unavoidable, but it can also be used for solving computational problems. In this study, the authors propose a new way to use noise to solve a computational problem. They suggest that when a neuron receives a noisy and thresholded (pre-synaptic) input, the synaptic input will be re-scaled according to an approximate power law. The authors suggest using this property in a computational model to explain many characteristics of the Lobula Giant Movement Detector (LGMD) neuron of the locust. The LGMD is a well-studied visual neuron that responds best to objects approaching on a direct collision course. The authors suggest that the response curve of the LGMD gradually increases to a maximum, and ceases abruptly afterwards. They also suggest that the activity peak can be related to the timing of the locust's escape jump. The authors suggest using their model to predict the time difference between the peak in the neuron's activity and the collision of the object. They suggest that this time difference depends linearly on the halfsize-to-velocity ratio. The authors also suggest that the maximum LGMD activity in vivo occurs at a different value of the angular size than predicted by the η-function. They suggest that the LGMD uses a logarithmic transformation to decode the logarithmically encoded membrane potential in its axon. However, they suggest that this is not an exact exponentiation, but rather a third-order power law.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a rare skin infection caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans (M. ulcerans). The infection results in chronic necrotizing ulcers, which can cause deformities, functional limitations, and social stigma if left untreated. BU is found in tropical and sub-tropical areas near stagnant or slow-flowing water bodies and marshlands. Children under 15 years of age are most affected by BU. The most common form of BU is ulcerative lesions, which can be diagnosed clinically by experienced health workers. The treatment for BU has evolved from surgery to using specific antibiotics in association with simple surgery for controlled wound healing, physiotherapy, nutritional, and psychosocial support. The Cameroon national BU control programme (NBUCP) was launched in 2002 and has been effective in controlling the spread of BU. The NBUCP has achieved significant milestones, including increasing the number of BU treatment centers, improving the quality of care, and reducing the number of new cases. However, challenges remain, including limited access to diagnosis and treatment, inadequate surveillance, and insufficient resources. This paper provides an overview of the NBUCP in Cameroon, highlighting its achievements and challenges and making suggestions for improvement and expansion of BU programme activities worldwide.
Reinforcement learning is a method of learning by trial-and-error that helps individuals make decisions that result in rewards and avoid punishments. This method has been widely used in psychology, neuroscience, and economics. However, little research has been done on how individuals can estimate their own performance in this method. We investigated this issue by having participants make decisions in a reinforcement-learning task where the outcomes were either gains or losses. We found that participants had lower confidence in their decisions in the loss-avoidance context compared to the gain-seeking context, despite similar performance in both conditions. We also found that this confidence bias was related to the perceived value of the outcomes, which could be influenced by monetary incentives. Finally, we found that this confidence bias affected participants' performance in reversal tasks, which are used to test the ability to adapt to changing environments. These findings suggest that tracking confidence judgments in reinforcement-learning tasks can provide valuable insight into learning processes.
The genus Alphavirus (family Togaviridae) includes several viruses that are spread by mosquitoes and can cause serious diseases in humans and animals. Some of these viruses, such as Venezuelan, Western, and Eastern equine encephalitis viruses, cause epidics in horses that can spill over to humans. These viruses have unique ways of replicating their RNA, and the proteins that are involved in this process are still not well understood. Researchers have discovered that a protein found in the replication complexes of these viruses, called nsP3, has a region that can bind to a specific type of protein called a SH3 domain. This finding is significant because SH3 domains are commonly found in proteins that are involved in cell signaling and membrane trafficking, and other pathogens have been found to use these proteins to interact with host cells. Researchers discovered that nsP3 from several different alphaviruses, including SFV, CHKV, and SINV, interact with two related proteins called amphiphysins, which are involved in endocytosis and membrane trafficking. They also found that mutations in the SH3 binding motifs of nsP3 abolished the interaction with amphiphysins, and that this led to reduced virus replication in cell culture and attenuated pathogenicity in mice. This study is important because it shows that the replication complexes of alphaviruses may interact with host cells using SH3 domains, and that this interaction may play a role in their replication and virulence.
Chromoblastomycosis is a skin infection caused by melanized fungi, which mainly occurs in tropical and subtropical regions with a preference for humid climates with dense forestation. Cladophialophora carrionii is the only species that is restricted to semi-arid areas with Cactaceae as the main vegetation. The infection is assumed to occur through accidental inoculation of the fungus via contaminated plant debris, being favored by agricultural activities, making it an occupational disease. The disease is characterized by pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia with epidermal microabscesses and dermal granulomata, and is caused by different species. Fonsecaea pedrosoi is nearly exclusively isolated from chromoblastomycosis, while F . monophora repeatedly causes brain infection. F . pugnacius combines the two disorders by starting as chromoblastomycosis with cerebral dissemination in a single patient. Species distinction is clinically significant because of the differences in prognosis of the infection. The present study evaluates the diversity of agents in endemic areas of Brazil based on multilocus sequence data, clinical aspects, direct mycological examination, and culture. An enumeration of currently proven cases with molecular support in endemic areas in Brazil is provided.
This study looks at how bacteria called Listeria monocytogenes can affect the DNA damage response in human cells. L. monocytogenes causes a foodborne disease called listeriosis that can lead to febrile gastroenteritis or meningoencephalitis in severe cases. The bacteria enter host cells using two proteins, InlA and InlB, that bind to host receptors E-cadherin and c-Met respectively. Once inside the cell, L. monocytogenes escapes from the endocytic vacuole using a pore-forming toxin called listeriolysin O (LLO). This toxin not only allows bacteria to escape from the vacuole but also affects several host functions such as gene transcription, mitochondrial dynamics, host protein synthesis and SUMOylation. In this study, the authors found that infection with L. monocytogenes induces DNA breaks and activates the DNA damage response (DDR) in host cells both in vitro and in vivo. However, the authors also found that LLO dampens activation of the DDR. The authors believe that this dampening of the DDR is important for infection as inhibition of proteins implicated in this pathway increases bacterial proliferation. This study provides insight into how L. monocytogenes can subvert the DDR to its advantage and highlights the importance of the DDR in blocking bacterial proliferation.
Herpes simplex viruses (HSV-1 and HSV-2) are important human pathogens that cause cold sores, blisters, and sexually transmitted infections. They are acquired by direct contact and replicate in mucosal epithelial cells. The viruses can also enter nerve termini of sensory neurons and establish latency in the cell bodies. This latency serves as a reservoir for recurrent infection and transmission to other people. The molecular machinery responsible for HSV replication regulation is not well understood, but it involves multiple viral and cellular factors. We took an approach by screening a chemical library of epigenetic regulation to identify factors affecting HSV infection. We discovered several structurally different BRD4 inhibitors that promoted HSV-1 and HSV-2 infection. BRD4 is a member of the BET family, which regulates host gene expression and participates in HPV transcription activation and HIV-1 replication. We discovered that bromodomain inhibition enhances HSV infection by promoting transcription factor association with HSV gene promoters.
Noma, also known as cancrum oris, is a disease that causes gangrenous oral lesions. It was first described in ancient Egypt and has caused devastating outbreaks throughout history. Noma is a complex disease that develops rapidly and is thought to have a microbial origin. Risk factors for noma include malnutrition, poor oral hygiene, a compromised immune system, and an unidentified triggering microorganism. The disease is not infectious and there is no cure. Treatment includes hydration and nutrition, local disinfection of the wound, antibiotic therapy, and reconstructive surgery. The goal of the research described in the article is to identify candidate bacterial species that are characteristic of acute noma lesions using high-throughput sequencing. The study found that the same (or very similar) bacteria were present in noma and ANG lesions. This information will be used to identify potential causes of noma and could serve as a powerful tool for future research.
This paper is about a group of proteins called RNPPs that are involved in the regulation of gene expression in bacteria. These proteins have a specific domain that is made up of repeating units called TPRs. Each TPR is made up of two helices that are connected in a specific way. When a signaling molecule called a peptide binds to the RNPP, it can change the activity of the protein by affecting how it binds to DNA. This paper describes the structure and function of the RNPP called NprR in a type of bacteria called Bacillus thuringiensis. The authors found that NprR has two domains, one that binds DNA and one that binds peptides. They also found that NprR can bind to two peptides at the same time, which can change how it binds to DNA. The authors suggest that NprR may be involved in the regulation of sporulation in B. thuringiensis. They found that in the absence of bound peptides, NprR can act as a type of regulator called Rap, which can prevent sporulation. However, when a peptide binds to NprR, it can activate the sporulation process. The authors also found that the NprR protein is very flexible, which may be important for its function. They propose a mechanism for how the NprX peptide can change the function of NprR from an inhibitor of sporulation to a regulator of sporulation. The authors suggest that this mechanism allows the bacteria to adapt to changing conditions and synchronize important processes.
The article discusses the use of computer programs to predict the effect of specific mutations in the genetic makeup of HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) on the virus's response to different HIV drugs. These mutations can make HIV less sensitive to treatment with HIV drugs, so it is important to understand their effects. The article explains the use of two different types of computer models that have been developed to make these predictions. These models are based on large amounts of data on the effects of different HIV drugs and different mutations, and they take into account information about how similar different drugs are to each other. The article concludes by discussing the potential usefulness of these computer models in the clinic.
In eukaryotic cells, migration towards a chemoattractant is called chemotaxis. Chemotaxis involves several steps such as sensing of chemoattractant gradients, signal processing, and pseudopod generation. The pseudopod-centered model is a recent approach that proposes that the cytoskeleton plays a crucial role in chemotaxis, without requiring a compass or other internal messenger to represent the direction of the gradient. The model suggests that pseudopods are the main players in chemotaxis and that new pseudopods are generated mainly by splitting existing ones. The pseudopod-centered model also suggests that chemotaxis is accomplished by biasing the cycle of pseudopod generation and retraction rather than simply at the level of new pseudopod initiation. The local coupling model is another approach that proposes that chemoattractants bias an internal process and there is no need for signal processing. However, this model has two disadvantages. It is limited to cells with broad and stable leading edges that turn without generating or retracting pseudopods, and it does not deal well with cells that have actin polymerization at any part of the cell. In this work, the authors address the pseudopod-centered model as a potential broad or universal model for chemotaxis.
The bubonic plague is a disease that is transmitted from the bite of an infected flea. The two ways that fleas can transmit the plague are called early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ). EPT occurs when a flea that has taken a highly bacteremic infectious blood meal is able to transmit the plague to its next host within 4 days of becoming infected. BDT happens when a mature biofilm forms in the proventriculus of the flea, which blocks normal blood feeding and forces blood to reflux back into the bite site. The authors of this article conducted experiments to determine whether different sources of rodent blood used in the infectious blood meal could modify early infection of the flea foregut by Y . pestis or EPT. They found that when fleas were fed on rat or guinea pig blood, they developed PIER ( post-infection esophageal reflux ), which can block the passage of blood during the flea's next blood meal and increase the number of Y . pestis CFU transmitted by O . montana . The ability of Y . pestis to produce an exopolysaccharide required for biofilm formation is necessary for enhanced in vitro transmission at 3 days after infection. Therefore, when O . montana are infected with rat blood, they can become partially or fully blocked and transmit the plague within a time frame typically attributed to EPT.
The study investigates how the structure of the correlation in a population of neurons affects their ability to encode information. The authors found that positive correlations, specifically, the covariance matrix, can enhance coding performance in some cases, which was not previously thought to be possible. They demonstrate this effect using models of pairs of neurons, small populations, and large populations. The authors show that correlation can broaden response distributions, resulting in coding ambiguity. However, they found that correlation can deform these distributions in a way that suppresses overlap and improves coding performance. They also focus on the case of discrete stimuli, or categorical perception, and show that this enhancement can occur in small populations with tens or hundreds of neurons. The study has important implications for the understanding of neural coding and provides a theoretical framework for the experimental investigation of the relationship between correlation and coding.
Cholera is a severely dehydrating diarrheal disease that is spread through fecal-oral transmission and is closely associated with poor sanitation and lack of safe drinking water. It remains an important global public health problem, especially in Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean. Cholera is caused by toxigenic strains of Vibrio cholerae and can be classified into two serotypes, Ogawa and Inaba. Previous infection with Inaba provides more complete protection against subsequent Inaba and Ogawa infections. An Inaba cholera conjugate vaccine has been developed and its dosage, route of immunization, and presence or absence of adjuvant have been assessed. This vaccine provides a potential means of controlling cholera in high-risk areas.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a debilitating disease caused by several types of parasites. The disease affects around 68 million people in 73 countries, mostly in tropical and subtropical areas. The parasites are transmitted by certain types of mosquitoes. Wuchereria bancrofti is one of the parasites that causes LF. It affects about 44 million people in Africa and 6 million people in the Americas. There are other types of filarial parasites, such as Brugia malayi and Loa loa, that also cause LF. The World Health Organization recommends mass drug administration (MDA) to eliminate LF. This involves giving a single dose of ivermectin to people over 5 years old. However, accurate mapping of the distribution of the parasites is crucial for the implementation and monitoring of the MDA program. The Filariasis ICT is a rapid diagnostic test that detects the presence of filarial antigens in blood. It is easy to perform and does not require any equipment. A more sensitive version of the ICT has been developed, but it has not been extensively evaluated yet. The present study aimed to re-evaluate the ICT in areas with contrasting endemicity rates of loiasis and mansonellosis in Cameroon. The study found that the ICT positivity rate is associated with the prevalence of Loa loa Mf and the prevalence of Mansonella perstans Mf. The study also found that the density of Loa loa Mf and the density of Mansonella perstans Mf are correlated with the ICT positivity rate at the individual level. The study suggests that a threshold of risk of ICT card positivity due to Loa loa and Mansonella perstans prevalence and intensity should be considered when using the ICT as a diagnostic tool.
The coronavirus, a type of virus that causes respiratory illnesses such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), has a unique way of making copies of itself. Instead of using a host cell's machinery, the virus takes over the host cell's infrastructure and metabolism. The coronavirus then modifies organelles within the host cell to create special factories where viral RNA synthesis takes place. Scientists have been studying these factories using a special type of microscope that can see three dimensions. They found that the factories were not isolated vesicles but were integrated into a network of modified host cell membranes. The network included convoluted membranes, which were not previously known to be involved in viral RNA synthesis, and double-membrane vesicles, which were previously thought to be the primary site of viral RNA synthesis. The scientists were not able to determine the exact function of these factories and the mechanism of their formation, raising several questions about the viral lifecycle and the interaction between the virus and the host cell.
The root system of plants is a specialized organ that helps absorb water and nutrients from the soil. To do this, water and nutrients are taken up by root cells and transported across the root to the central part of the plant. There are two ways that this transport can happen: through the apoplast (outside of plant cells) or through the symplast (inside of plant cells). It is thought that transport proteins help control what gets transported and how much of it gets transported. However, there is a barrier that keeps water and nutrients from moving too quickly through the apoplast. This barrier is made of a substance called suberin, which is found in two layers of cells in the root called the exodermis and endodermis. The exodermis is found outside of the main root tissue, while the endodermis is found inside of the main root tissue. It is thought that the endodermis keeps water and nutrients from moving too quickly through the apoplast, while the exodermis keeps water and nutrients from moving too quickly through the soil. But, there is not a lot of evidence to support this idea. In this study, the authors looked at the effects of changing the amount of suberin in the endodermis of Arabidopsis thaliana roots. They found that when there is less suberin, plants lose water more quickly and their shoots have more salt and other minerals. They also found that these effects can be reversed by grafting the affected part of the plant to a healthy plant. This provides direct evidence that suberin plays a role in regulating water and mineral transport through the root.
In retinal rod photoreceptors, a molecule called rhodopsin is activated when light hits it. This activates a signal transduction cascade that reduces the flow of electrical current in the outer segment of the photoreceptor. Rhodopsin is then deactivated either by binding to a molecule called arrestin or by thermal decay to a non-active form called opsin. The molecular biochemistry that regulates this deactivation can occur by several different paths. In this study, we created a mathematical model that reproduces the response of the photoreceptor to a single photon and separates the different paths of deactivation. We found that the randomness of the time it takes for rhodopsin to be deactivated is the main contributor to the variability of the response. The number of available sites for phosphorylation or the total number of phosphorylations before deactivation contribute very little to the suppression of variability. We also found that the geometry of the photoreceptor might be important for the response in mutant mice.
Stochastic systems are mathematical models that describe random processes and their behavior. In biochemical systems, stochasticity arises from the intrinsic noise of low-copy molecules and the fluctuations in the intracellular environment, also known as extrinsic noise. To account for this extrinsic noise, current approaches use augmented kinetic models with fixed or fluctuating environmental components. However, these approaches are limited by their increased dimensionality. In this work, we propose a self-contained stochastic model that summarizes all system behaviors under all possible realizations of the extrinsic fluctuations, using the concept of marginalization. This allows us to uncouple the dynamics of a reaction network subject to extrinsic noise and emulate its effects through self-excitation, such as in the Polya urn scheme. We developed a general mathematical framework for constructing this model and demonstrated its effectiveness for both constant and dynamically changing environments.
Brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) are devices that allow people with disabilities to control computer cursors or robotic arms using their neural activity. BMI research has shown that humans and monkeys can use their neural activity to directly control computer cursors or robotic arms. However, the relationship between neural activity and movements can be different for natural arms versus BMI cursors, and the decoder needs to be adjusted to better handle the latter relationship. A recent approach to improving BMI performance is closed-loop decoder adaptation ( CLDA ), which involves adjusting the decoder parameters in real-time based on the user’s neural activity. In this work, we propose a new closed-loop BMI training architecture called the adaptive optimal feedback-controlled ( OFC ) point process filter ( PPF ) to achieve faster BMI adaptation time-scales. The OFC-PPF models the spikes as a series of random 0 and 1 events occurring in time and uses an infinite-horizon optimal feedback control model of the brain's control behavior in the BMI paradigm. We evaluated the architecture in closed-loop BMI experiments in a rhesus monkey over 89 days and found that spike-event-based adaptation results in faster parameter convergence compared to batch-based methods. Moreover, the new intention estimation method (the optimal feedback controller) results in a PPF decoder with higher performance. Finally, we found that the architecture extends control to tasks beyond those used for CLDA training.
In the field of neuroscience, researchers have found that sensory circuits should conserve resources by reducing correlations in their outputs. However, some degree of redundancy is useful to the brain when dealing with response variability and making decisions based on probabilistic input. To explore this possibility, the authors investigated the impact of stimulus structure on retinal output correlation. They found that some correlations are present between pairs of retinal ganglion cell spike trains even for the least correlated white noise checkerboard stimuli. However, the retina does not fully decorrelate its input; some correlations are present between pairs of retinal ganglion cell spike trains even for the most correlated natural movies. The authors observed a robustly faster response timecourse and a modest skew towards stronger inhibitory surrounds in response to spatio-temporally correlated stimuli. These changes were sufficient to largely explain the observed relative suppression of pairwise correlations in the retinal output.
The genetic interactions between two genes can provide insight into their functions and how they work together in a cell. However, there are a lot of different ways that these interactions can occur, and it can be hard to predict them. One approach that has been developed to predict genetic interactions is to use machine learning models that look at the relationships between different genes. These models can use information from different types of data, such as protein interaction networks and gene expression data. However, these models need a lot of information to work properly.
The BRCA Challenge is a project focused on collecting data from all over the world about mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes and their association with an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer. The project uses data from various sources, including hospitals, genetic testing companies, and research institutions. The data are processed and analyzed to provide accurate and up-to-date information about the location, frequency, and clinical significance of these mutations. The project also provides tools and resources for researchers and clinicians to access and use this information.
Malaria is a disease that threatens more than 40% of the world's population and causes about 1 million deaths each year. It is caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum, which is exposed to toxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) in its life cycle, making it vulnerable to disruption of its redox equilibrium during its erythrocytic life stages. To defend against these toxic ROS, malaria parasites have developed two major NADPH-dependent redox systems, including a glutathione system and a thioredoxin system. It has been predicted that some of these redox-related proteins may be located in different subcellular compartments, but their experimental verification and significance has not been demonstrated yet. In this study, we systematically analyzed the subcellular compartmentation of these major redox-related proteins in Plasmodium falciparum. Our results provide a comprehensive redox-map of the parasite that can be used to develop new chemotherapeutic agents that act by perturbing the redox equilibrium of Plasmodium.
Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) play important roles in many physiological processes, including protein interaction networks such as transcriptional and translational regulation, cellular signal transduction, protein phosphorylation, and molecular assembly [4]. These proteins undergo conformational changes upon binding to their biomacromolecular partners [4, 5]. The electrostatic interactions are known to play important roles in binding processes [9–11]. However, so far only a limited number of experiments have investigated these interactions within coupled folding and binding reactions [12–14]. We are investigating the process of coupled folding and binding of PUMA and Mcl-1 using coarse-grained simulations that are specifically designed to include contributions from electrostatic interactions. Mcl-1 is a stable folded pro-survival Bcl-2 protein, while PUMA is an intrinsically disordered protein in its unbound state.
Scientists are studying how certain proteins in the fruit fly Drosophila organize a specific type of DNA, which helps the fly develop into different types of cells. These proteins are called Polycomb Group (PcG) proteins, and they are found in parts of the DNA called Polycomb response elements (PREs). PREs are like specific addresses for PcG proteins, which bind to them and keep the DNA tightly packed and inactive. Scientists have noticed that PcG proteins can also group together in large clusters in the nucleus, which they call Polycomb domains. Within these domains, PREs can interact with each other to form a three-dimensional structure that keeps the DNA tightly packed and inactive. Scientists are trying to understand how these proteins move around in the nucleus and how this movement affects the fly's development. They are also trying to find out how the organization of PcG proteins and the DNA they bind to change as the fly develops. By studying these processes, scientists hope to learn more about how cells differentiate into different types of tissues in the body.
Mitochondria are the powerhouses of our cells and they need a specific set of instructions, carried by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), to function properly. As we age, mitochondria become less efficient and this is believed to be due to the build-up of mutations in mtDNA. There are different types of mutations, including point mutations, insertions, and deletions. A proofreading-deficient mtDNA polymerase is responsible for the build-up of point mutations in a mouse model known as mtDNA mutator mice. These mice have a premature aging phenotype and show a decline in oxidative phosphorylation capacity. Interestingly, the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and oxidative damage are not increased in these mice, refuting the notion of a vicious cycle where somatic mtDNA mutations lead to increased ROS production. The genome-wide estimates of intra-individual mtDNA variability caused by low-frequency mutations are needed to determine the importance of different types of mtDNA mutations in aging. We used a DNA sequencing technology to assess the intra-individual mtDNA variability caused by low-frequency mutations in normal aging mice and mtDNA mutator mice. We found that rare variants are more frequent in mtDNA mutator mice compared to normal aging mice, indicating that low-frequency mtDNA mutations could play a role in aging.
The enzyme called ATP synthase makes ATP, the energy source in most living things, inside the membranes of bacteria and mitochondria. The ATP synthase has two parts that work together: the water-soluble F1 part and the membrane-bound Fo part. The F1 part has catalytic centers and the Fo part lets ions in and out of the membrane. The F1 and Fo parts are connected by two stalks. In the Fo part, a ring of subunits called c-rings rotates as ions move through it. Each c-subunit in the ring has an ion-binding site that is selective for either sodium or protons. In F. nucleatum, the bacterium that causes periodontal disease, the c-ring may be able to use either sodium or protons to make ATP. It is also possible that the c-ring in F. nucleatum has two carboxyl groups that are involved in ion binding, which could affect the way the enzyme works. To learn more about how the F. nucleatum c-ring works, scientists used different methods, including microbiology, biochemistry, and computer simulations.
This study investigates how the strength of the interaction between a T cell receptor (TCR) and a peptide bound to a major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) molecule affects T cell activation potency in vivo. The strength of the interaction between TCR and pMHC molecule is determined by two factors: the association rate (ka) and the dissociation rate (kd). Previous studies have found that pMHC ligands with a higher affinity/slower off-rate result in a higher potency of T cell activation, but this study found that the influence of the two factors varies depending on the strength of the TCR/pMHC interaction. When the association rate is small (103 M−1s−1), the dissociation rate is more influential in determining T cell activation potency. When the association rate is large (>105 M−1s−1), the affinity is more influential in determining T cell activation potency. The study found that in vivo T cell activation potency is highest in the middle of the avidity spectrum, and not at the highest or lowest ends of the spectrum. Additionally, the study found that there is an upper limit of TCR ligand potency, and that strong TCR/pMHC interactions may result in attenuated T cell responses rather than increased cell death, overactivation, or clonal exhaustion. The study highlights the importance of considering the in vivo efficacy of TCR ligands as part of vaccine strategies that aim to promote high-avidity T cell recognition of tumors or pathogens.
The fungus Nectria haematococca, also known as Fusarium solani, is a type of fungi that can live in various environments, such as forests, swamps, and deserts. These fungi can also cause disease in plants and humans. They have the ability to grow in anaerobic conditions and are resistant to many harmful chemicals. F . solani is also found in highly radioactive environments and can degrade harmful substances in the soil, such as lignin, metal cyanides, and pesticides. Individual species of the F . solani complex can adapt to specific habitats and the genes controlling this adaptation are located on dispensable chromosomes. These chromosomes are not required for growth but provide an advantage in certain environments, such as resistance to plant antimicrobials and the ability to utilize specific carbon and nitrogen sources. Some of these chromosomes and genes might have been acquired through horizontal gene transfer, similar to genomic islands in bacteria. The genomic sequence of N . haematococca can reveal many metabolic pathways and expand our understanding of the impact of gene flow on fungal evolution.
To better understand the process of alpha herpesviruses (like PRV, VZV, and HSV-1) exiting cells, researchers developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method that visualizes viral exocytosis. Using this method, they tracked the movement of viral particles at the plasma membrane and found that they are tightly confined before and after exocytosis and undergo a sharp movement during the tens of milliseconds immediately after exocytosis. Additionally, they used a fluorescent probe to determine the precise moment and location of exocytosis. Through previous studies, many different Rab proteins (which regulate intracellular membrane traffic) were found to be involved in virus replication. However, it was unclear whether these Rab proteins are involved directly in viral egress or have other indirect or upstream effects. To resolve this ambiguity, the researchers imaged Rab proteins in live cells to identify those that are spatially and dynamically associated with viral exocytosis. They also investigated the plasma membrane sites of viral exocytosis and found no evidence for specialized cytoskeleton-depleted exocytosis sites, contrary to a previous report on HSV-1. However, they did observe that viral exocytosis events occur most frequently near plasma membrane patches of LL5β, part of a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane and regulates exocytosis. Based on previous reports in the cell biological and alpha herpesvirus literature combined with their present findings, the researchers propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress.
This study explored the relationship between parasites and allergies or autoimmune diseases. Some studies suggest that childhood exposure to parasites might protect against allergies and autoimmune disorders. A previous study in Taiwan found a negative correlation between pinworm infection and allergic airway diseases. However, a study in Denmark found no association between enterobiasis and allergic diseases, type 1 diabetes, arthritis, or inflammatory bowel disease. This study aimed to examine the interaction between the intestinal parasite Enterobius vermicularis and the composition of gut microflora, and the role of intestinal bacteria in the immune response to the parasite. This study followed 109 primary school-aged children over 6 months. The study found that the abundance of probiotic bacteria was lower in children who were exposed to the parasite. The study also found that exposure to the parasite was associated with increased levels of secretory IgA, which is a protective antibody in the gut. The study suggests that the parasite may have anti-inflammatory effects on the gut. However, the study did not find a direct association between parasite exposure and allergic diseases, and further studies are needed to confirm the findings.
In this study, the authors performed a genome-wide analysis of epistatic interactions for the root length trait in the Arabidopsis thaliana population. They found four genome-wide significant epistatic interactions, and evaluated their robustness using a new statistical method. They also performed experimental validation of these interactions using T-DNA insertion mutants, and identified functional candidates that affect root length. The authors suggest that their work demonstrates the value of performing epistatic genome-wide association studies in small populations, and highlights the increased risk of false-positive associations and "apparent epistasis" in small samples. However, they also note that their top-ranked epistatic interactions proved to be valuable in further experimental validation, and that they identified promising functional candidates that would have been missed without an epistatic genome-wide association study. Overall, the authors suggest that their study contributes to our understanding of the genetics of root development in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is inherited from mothers and doesn't get mixed up in the population. As people moved from Africa to other parts of the world, different regions developed their own unique genetic variations known as "mtDNA haplogroups." Some of these genetic variations can cause inherited metabolic diseases, which affect 1 in 10,000 people. These genetic variations can happen again and again in different people and with different mtDNA haplogroups. However, the way these genetic variations cause diseases may not always be the same. Some genetic variations seem to cause diseases more commonly in certain mtDNA haplogroups. This has been studied in certain diseases caused by genetic variations in the Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy gene. However, this has not been studied in all genetic variations. This is because there are not enough mtDNA sequences available to analyze.
Collective cell migration is the movement of groups of cells together, which is important for various biological functions. When cells move together, they can develop new behaviors that are not seen in isolated cells. These behaviors include fingering instabilities, emergent chemotaxis, and leader cell behavior. One way that cells interact with each other to create collective migration is through contact inhibition of locomotion (CIL). CIL is the tendency of a cell to change its direction of motion after contact with another cell. In vitro experiments have shown that after a collision, a cell can either stop moving, continue moving in the same direction, change direction or stick together. CIL plays a central role in coordinating collective migration of cells, such as neural crest cells and hemocytes. A 1D collision assay is a powerful and commonly used technique to study outcomes of cell-cell collision.
Thioredoxin (Trx) is a protein that plays a crucial role in many biological processes, such as the reduction of arsenate reductase (ArsC) by Trx-ArsC complex formation and dissociation. In this process, a mixed disulfide complex is formed between Trx and ArsC, in which two cysteine residues from Trx and ArsC are involved. The mechanism behind this reaction involves a regioselective nucleophilic attack by Cys32Trx on the disulfide bond between Cys89ArsC and Cys82ArsC. This attack results in the formation of a Trx-ArsC mixed disulfide complex. The structure of this complex was determined experimentally using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. However, the structure of the activated complex, which is the transition state of the reaction, was not known. To address this, we used molecular dynamics simulations in explicit solvent to investigate the Trx-ArsC complex. We found that the sulphur of Cys32Trx can move close enough to Cys29Trx to bring the two sulphur atoms in contact, which is a functionally new conformation. We refer to this conformation as the “activated complex”. In this conformation, the sulphur of Cys32Trx can form two hydrogen bonds that stabilize its thiolate form. We also calculated the pKa values of the cysteine residues involved in the reaction using the linear correlation between the natural population analysis (NPA) charge calculated on the sulphur atom of thiols and their experimentally determined pKa. We found that the pKa of Cys32Trx was significantly lower than that of Cys82Trx and Cys89Trx. These calculations allowed us to propose a new and consistent view of the mechanism of the Trx-ArsC complex dissociation. We also used reactivity analysis with conceptual density functional theory to investigate the reactivity of the cysteine residues involved in the reaction. This analysis revealed that Cys32Trx had performed a nucleophilic attack on Cys29Trx of the Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC disulfide. This attack resulted in the formation of the Trx-ArsC mixed disulfide intermediate complex between Cys29Trx and Cys89ArsC. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanism of the Trx-ArsC complex dissociation and its regioselectivity.
The way people make choices is influenced by what they learn about what others value. This can happen for various reasons, such as wanting to avoid the dangers of not conforming or to receive social approval. In the current study, the authors focused on a specific type of preference change that occurs when people learn about what others value and change their preferences accordingly. This type of preference change does not involve any calculation of better outcomes. The authors call this type of preference change "epistemic" because people are uncertain about their own preferences and use the preferences of others as data to update their own preferences. In order to understand the computational structure of this type of preference change, the authors designed an experiment where subjects learned to make choices for others and their own choices changed accordingly. The authors found that this type of preference change was dominated by social influences and was independent of complex social motives such as oppositional traits or competitive traits. The authors also proposed that the degree of preference change was related to how uncertain people were about their own preferences.
The process of filamentous growth in yeast involves multiple signaling pathways, including the FG pathway. In this study, the authors identify new regulators of the FG pathway that controls filamentous growth. They use a screening approach to identify new aspects of this differentiation response. The study reveals that the major filamentation regulatory pathways (RAS, RIM101, OPI1, and RTG) are connected in co-regulatory circuits, which indicates a systems-level coordination of this differentiation response.
Fungi are great models for studying how gene expression changes lead to differences in morphology. Many different fungi produce fruiting bodies, which are important for sexual reproduction and spore dispersal. We looked at gene expression changes in the fruiting bodies of Neurospora and Fusarium species. We used a combination of genetic analysis, comparative genomics, and functional analysis to understand how changes in gene expression lead to differences in the morphology of fruiting bodies. Our results suggest that some of the differences in fruiting body morphology are caused by changes in gene regulation and interaction networks. We also developed computational models to predict the function of new genes based on their expression patterns. Our results provide important insights into the relationship between gene expression and morphology, and suggest that many of the changes that lead to new phenotypes are driven by changes in gene regulation and interaction networks.
Schistosomiasis is a disease that affects many people worldwide. It is caused by parasites that live in the bloodstream of infected people. The current treatment is with a drug called praziquantel, but concerns have been raised about the possibility of resistance. The genomes of the parasites have been studied, and it has been found that they have many genes and complex structures. It has been difficult to manipulate their genes, but a method called electroporation has been used to introduce new genes and other molecules into the parasite's eggs. This may help us understand the biology of the parasite better, and potentially lead to new ways to treat and control the disease.
In this paper, the authors propose a new approach to study the dynamics of large-scale macromolecular assemblies, such as protein synthesis, virus capsid assembly, and chaperone systems. They use a simplified representation of protein structures and a Markovian process to study how signals propagate in proteins. The authors introduce a matrix subspace projection method that allows them to solve the underlying large-scale master equation governing the dynamics of Markovian signal propagation accurately. They also demonstrate that simple perturbations can reveal the intrinsic dynamic properties of proteins. The authors apply their approach to the GroEL-GroES system, which is an important model system for chaperone systems. They characterize the dynamic response of residues in the GroEL-GroES system and identify functionally important residues involved in signal transduction.
Lectins are proteins that bind to specific carbohydrates. They play important roles in defense against predators, parasites, and pathogens. Some lectins are toxic to their target organisms. Fungal fruiting-body lectins are found in mushrooms and are toxic to some insects and mammalian cells. They may also play a role in defense against fungivores, such as fungus-eating nematodes. We found that two isogalectins found in the mushroom Coprinopsis cinerea, CGL1 and CGL2, are toxic to the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We also found that this toxicity is caused by the specific binding of these lectins to a β-galactoside in the nematode's intestine. This study shows that fungal fruiting-body lectins may play a role in defense against fungivores.
HIV is a virus that affects the immune system. It can cause AIDS, a disease where the immune system is so weakened that it cannot fight off even common infections. HIV is a very stable virus that can hide in the body for a long time, even after antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been started. This latent form of HIV can reemerge and spread to other people, and it can also influence how HIV evolves. A mathematical model of HIV evolution has been created that includes a latent reservoir. This model shows that the reservoir can slow down the evolution of the virus. The model can be used to understand how HIV evolves over time and how the reservoir might affect this evolution. It can also be used to predict the effects of different interventions on HIV evolution. This information can help us better understand how to control the spread of HIV.
Coxsackievirus B (CVB) is a virus that can cause severe diseases, including myocarditis, pancreatitis, and meningitis. However, these viruses are not easily detected by the body's immune system, specifically T cells. To better understand how the immune system responds to CVB, researchers created a modified version of the virus (rCVB) that expresses well-known T cell epitopes from other viruses. They then used these epitope-specific T cells to study how CVB affects the immune system. The researchers found that rCVB induces essentially no detectable primary CD8+ T cell response in vivo. This finding suggests that CVB has a powerful ability to evade the immune system, particularly the CD8+ T cell response. However, rCVB does not appear to destroy or paralyze CD8+ T cells or induce a global suppression of the animal's ability to mount strong T cell responses. Instead, the researchers believe that CVB inhibits the MHC class I antigen presentation pathway, preventing the virus from being detected by CD8+ T cells. This could explain why the virus is difficult to detect by the immune system. In contrast, MHC class II presentation was relatively uninterrupted and rCVB induced both primary and memory CD4+ T cell responses. This study provides important insights into how CVB interacts with the immune system and could lead to new strategies for treating CVB infections.
Leprosy is a contagious skin disease caused by a bacteria called Mycobacterium leprae. It can cause nerve damage and disfigurement. Type 1 reactions are a type of nerve damage that affects 30% of people with leprosy. They are treated with corticosteroids, but a standardized 12-week course of prednisolone is not effective for everyone. A randomized controlled trial compared three daily infusions of high-dose methylprednisolone (MP) to a 16-week course of prednisolone alone. The trial aimed to confirm the safety of MP before considering a larger trial to test its effectiveness in treating type 1 reactions.
The body's immune system protects us against viruses and other pathogens. One type of immune cell, called CD8 T cells, can destroy cells that are infected with viruses. However, these cells may not be able to completely eliminate some viruses, such as HIV, and may become exhausted as a result. This exhaustion is thought to be caused by a negative feedback loop involving another type of immune cell called Treg. Treg cells are known to regulate the immune system, preventing it from overreacting and causing damage to the body. However, in the case of chronic HIV infection, Treg cells may actually suppress the immune response, allowing the virus to continue to replicate. Some studies suggest that blocking this negative feedback loop could help boost the immune response against HIV, and potentially help clear the virus from the body.
Lymphatic filariasis is a mosquito-borne infection that affects 120 million people worldwide. It is caused by parasites that reside in the lymphatic system and can cause long-term disability. Current treatments require multiple rounds to reduce infection levels, and additional measures such as vector control and vaccine development are needed. The infective larvae of filarial parasites enter the human host and are recognized by antibodies and effector cells in an antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) mechanism. Studies have shown that filarial parasites can neutralize cytotoxic products from the host cells and survive for years without harm. Neutralizing the activity of glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs), a protein that helps the parasite survive, could be a strategy for developing a vaccine against filarial infections. In mice, immunization with GST from Fasciola gigantica conferred protection against challenge infection with Schistosoma mansoni. Wuchereria bancrofti GST (WbGST) appears to be a promising target for vaccine development and has been evaluated in this study.
The CRISPR-Cas9 system is used to change specific genes in experimental organisms. However, this method may lead to unwanted changes in other parts of the DNA. Recent studies have used whole-genome sequencing to find these changes. However, these studies did not compare the sequenced animals to their parents, so they could not tell if the changes were caused by the CRISPR-Cas9 system or by natural genetic differences. Here, we investigated how much natural genetic differences can affect the detection of off-target editing events caused by the CRISPR-Cas9 system.
Phytochromes and cryptochromes are light sensors that regulate various plant responses, such as de-etiolation, flowering time, and circadian rhythm. Phototropins are light sensors that regulate plant movements in response to light. Guard cells control stomatal opening and closure in response to environmental or biotic stimuli. The phot1 and phot2 photoreceptors are involved in blue light-induced stomatal opening, and stomata are constitutively open in cop1 mutants. RPT2 is a protein that interacts with phot1 and is involved in blue light-induced stomatal opening. AtMYB60 is a protein that is involved in blue light and diurnal cue-induced stomatal opening. AtMYB61 is a protein that is involved in light- and diurnal cue-induced stomatal opening. The hrb1 mutant has a short hypocotyl phenotype under red or blue light and a late flowering phenotype. The pp7 knock-down plants have a long hypocotyl under blue light. HRB1 and PP7 are proteins that are involved in blue light-induced stomatal opening, and they interact with each other.
The Mediator is a protein complex that helps regulate gene expression. Researchers have found that different Mediator subunits have different functions, but it's not clear how this happens. Some Mediator subunits are required for all gene expression, while others are only required for certain types of gene expression. Researchers have also found that some Mediator subunits have specific roles in certain biological processes, such as the development of the vulva or male tail in worms. To learn more about the function of Mediator subunits and how they affect different types of gene expression, researchers used a genomic approach to identify genes that are influenced by a specific Mediator subunit called MDT-15. They found that MDT-15 influenced a wide range of genes and biological processes, including metabolism and development. This study provides more information about the functions of Mediator subunits and how they work together to regulate gene expression.
The hippocampus is a part of the brain that helps animals navigate and remember their surroundings. It does this by using a type of neuron called a place cell, which fires in a specific area of the environment. Place cells create an "internal map" of the environment that helps the animal navigate and remember where it is. Scientists have been studying this process and trying to understand how the internal map is created. They have found that the information contained in place cell firing patterns can be used to create a "connectivity map" of the environment, which is based on how different place cells overlap with each other. This connectivity map is a topological map, which means that it describes the relationships between different parts of the environment, such as how they are connected or contained in one another. Scientists have found that the information contained in place cell firing patterns is qualitative in nature and can be studied using topological techniques. They have also found that the experimentally observed characteristics of firing activity likely satisfy the requirements for a stable topological map.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a virus that causes liver disease. It has a single-stranded positive RNA genome that is translated into a protein. This protein is then processed into 3 structural proteins and 7 non-structural proteins. HCV can infect hepatocytes in cell culture, but it requires at least four receptor molecules and numerous entry cofactors. After infection, HCV replicates in the cytoplasm and assembles into particles. The particles then move to lipid droplets where virion assembly occurs. The NS2 protein is a central regulator in capsid assembly, acting as a scaffold to coordinate interactions between the structural and non-structural proteins leading to viral RNA encapsidation. The egress of HCV through the secretory pathway is not well understood, but HCV particles are distinct from the flaviviruses in that they are infectious upon envelopment and are secreted from the cell in association with distinct lipid and apolipoprotein associations. Cell culture-derived virus has a broad range of buoyant densities, with the lower density fractions containing virus highly infectious virus. Purified HCV virions have diverse morphologies and a lipid composition resembling very low-density lipoprotein. Small interfering RNAs or inhibitors that target components of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis inhibit infectious HCV secretion. In this study, the authors identified numerous host cofactors that are required for infectious HCV secretion but not HCV entry or replication. They then developed a live cell imaging approach to study HCV core trafficking using an infectious HCV that contains a tetracysteine (TC) tag insertion in the core protein (TC-core). This allowed them to visualize the movement of TC-core and to determine that it is microtubule-dependent and associated with several components of the secretory pathway.
In this study, researchers used mice to investigate the role of the imprinted gene Grb10 in the development of tumors. The researchers found that in mice with a mutation in the Nf1 gene, the loss of Grb10 expression promoted tumor growth. This effect was dependent on Ras signaling. The researchers also found that Grb10 expression is lost in some human cancers, including glioblastoma, and that this loss is often accompanied by a loss of Nf1 expression. These findings suggest that mutations in imprinted genes should be considered with regard to parental origin.
In animals, learning to anticipate danger from environmental cues is a valuable skill. In humans, this is often done through a process called Pavlovian threat conditioning. In this process, the brain learns to associate predictive cues with aversive events, and this process relies on a neural circuit distinct from the one involved in learning rewards. Computational models of associative learning, such as those that predict the likelihood of a certain outcome, have been proposed to explain threat learning. However, many of these models were originally developed for reward learning and it is unclear how well they capture threat learning. In this study, the authors compared different associative learning models and their trial-by-trial predictions with the measured trajectory of ANS responses (e.g. skin conductance responses and pupil size responses). They also examined which learning quantities were reflected on different ANS output. The authors considered models that learn transition probabilities, which are parameters that describe the likelihood of a certain outcome given certain conditions, and which have been proposed to explain Pavlovian threat learning. They compared these models with a probabilistic account that computes the likelihood over a parameter based on the evidence that has been observed so far. The authors reasoned that this probabilistic account might be useful in this context, given the relatively low signal-to-noise ratio in ANS estimates. The authors implemented a statistical framework for psychophysiological modelling and optimized signal-to-noise ratio using this framework. They found that the signal-to-noise ratio was higher for skin conductance responses than for pupil size responses. The authors also clarified the observation function, which is the way that the associative learning model relates to measured behaviour. They found that skin conductance responses and pupil size responses are more similar than previously thought, and that skin conductance responses, but not pupil size responses, habituate during learning. The authors conclude that their study provides evidence for a probabilistic account of threat learning and that this account may be useful for predicting and understanding behavioural responses to danger.
Fungi, like other living organisms, need to respond to their environment to survive and reproduce. To do this, they have a system called the "septum initiation network" (SIN) that helps them decide when to form a new cell division line or when to make spores. There are several proteins in the SIN that work together to control the formation of new cell division lines and spores. One of these proteins is SepH, which is a positive regulator of the SIN. This means that SepH helps to trigger septation and spore formation in fungi. It is not known if there are any "negative regulators" for spore formation in fungi, but it is likely that there are other proteins working with SepH to control the SIN. Other systems in fungi, like the "MAPK" system, also help them respond to their environment. These systems include a series of proteins that communicate with each other to control gene expression and other cellular functions. Different types of stress, like high salt or high sugar levels, can activate these systems and cause the fungi to make spores. In this study, the researchers used genetic analysis and protein phosphorylation analysis to identify a new protein called PomA that helps regulate septation and spore formation in fungi. They found that deleting PomA caused the HOG MAPK system to become more active, which could be another way for fungi to respond to stress.
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis (TL) is a parasitic disease caused by protozoans called Leishmania. It affects approximately 1.5 million people worldwide each year, with the highest number of cases in Brazil and the Amazon rainforest. In Rondonia, Brazil, the incidence of TL is high, with approximately 1000 new cases per year. Different species of Leishmania cause different clinical outcomes, such as simple skin lesions, more severe diffuse and mucosal leishmaniasis. The Leishmania RNA virus 1 (LRV1) was found in some strains of Leishmania and may play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease. This study aimed to identify the Leishmania species and investigate the presence of LRV1 in patients with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis to better understand the relationship between the frequency of the virus and the different species of Leishmania with the clinical manifestations of TL.
Pneumonia is a serious lung infection that can be caused by bacteria such as S. pneumoniae. This type of bacteria can live in the nose and throat without causing problems, but sometimes it can move into the lungs and cause pneumonia. The cells that line the lungs are called epithelial cells, and they have a special barrier that keeps bacteria from getting through to the body. Pneumonia occurs when the barrier is breached and the bacteria are able to travel to other parts of the body. Scientists are trying to understand why some people get pneumonia while others don't. They have found that a protein called PAF receptor is important for pneumonia to occur. The PAF receptor helps bacteria cross the barrier of epithelial cells. Scientists have also found that IFN-I is important for preventing pneumonia. IFN-I helps tighten the barrier between epithelial cells, which makes it harder for bacteria to cross. It also helps to reduce the PAF receptor, which helps bacteria cross. Scientists have found that giving IFN-I to mice can help protect them from getting pneumonia. These findings suggest that IFN-I plays an important role in protecting the body from pneumonia.
This article proposes a new type of neural network that is inspired by the way the human brain processes information. The brain processes information through a series of steps that involve learning and adapting to changing environments. These steps are not fully understood, and different types of learning may occur at different processing stages. In the visual pathway, sensory input is processed gradually and eventually reaches decision centers that control behavior. These centers are influenced by reward signals. Reinforcement learning, which involves learning based on the presence of reward signals, has been shown to be vital to visual learning. However, it is not clear how learning at the cellular level gives rise to learning at the level of animal behavior. Most learning models use hebbian learning principles, but a promising model is spike-time dependent plasticity (STDP). This model allows for unsupervised learning when a presynaptic cell fires shortly before a postsynaptic cell. If the postsynaptic cell fires before the presynaptic cell, the synapse between them decreases in strength. STDP allows for the use of reward signals to perform reinforcement learning. This is done by storing STDP events as synaptic tags and using them to adjust synaptic weights based on the presence of a reward signal. The dopamine modulation of synaptic tags created by STDP is critical for this type of reinforcement learning. The authors have built a model containing two plastic layers inspired by sensory pathways in the mammalian brain that are responsible for decision-making. The first layer uses unsupervised (unrewarded) learning to classify input, while the second layer is responsible for decision-making. The network simulates the brain of an agent moving through an unknown environment, learning to discriminate between different shapes of food particles and adjusting its movement based on reward and punishment signals. The authors demonstrate that this multilayered network combining rewarded and non-rewarded STDP and synaptic regulatory mechanisms is capable of solving a more complex foraging task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP.
Breast cancer is a type of cancer that affects women and is divided into two subtypes based on the expression of estrogen receptor (ER). The two subtypes have different characteristics, such as risk of recurrence and response to hormones and anti-estrogen therapies. The hormonal control of the estrogen receptor is influenced by a protein called ELF5, which is first expressed as mammary stem cells differentiate to become progenitor cells. A key role of ELF5 is to determine whether a progenitor cell will become an ER-secretory cell or an ER+ hormone sensing cell. In the ER+ subtype of breast cancer, ELF5 levels are low due to the dominance of the estrogen-driven phenotype. On the other hand, in the ER- subtype, ELF5 levels are high. Knockdown of ELF5 levels in luminal breast cancer cells has a small effect on proliferation, but a much greater effect is seen in ER- basal cell lines. Increased ELF5 levels provide an escape pathway from inhibition of proliferation by antiestrogen therapy, facilitating disease progression. ELF5 also influences phenotypic plasticity, which regulates the acquisition of invasive and motile characteristics to cancer cells, and plays a role in the interaction of the tumor with the host immune system. We have used an inducible mouse model of mammary-specific ELF5 expression to investigate the roles played by ELF5 during mammary carcinogenesis and progression to metastatic disease.
In a recent article, researchers have explored the interactions and effects of regulatory elements on gene expression. These regulatory elements can be found either close to the promoter (less than 1kb away) or farther away (much more than 1kb). The article suggests that the ordered interactions among these regulatory elements play a crucial role in the spatial and physiological control of gene expression, as well as in stochastic gene transcription and cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. It also highlights the complexity of transcription activation, which involves interactions among promoter-proximal and distal DNA elements, as well as DNA looping. The article provides examples of enhancers and insulators that activate promoters by directly contacting transcription factors or chromatin-modifying enzymes via DNA looping. It also discusses the inhibitory effects of DNA looping on transcription, as well as the role of proteins such as CI and Ldb1 in looping. Finally, the article provides an overview of previous studies on gene expression and DNA looping, as well as the current understanding of the mechanisms involved in this process.
This study presents a method to control gene expression using RNA molecules. The authors have developed a design framework for creating new RNA molecules that can block gene expression by interfering with the process of translation initiation. They achieved this by conducting a design of experiments (DOE) to analyze the influence of various RNA features on gene repression. Using this information, they created an ordinary least squares (OLS) and a partial least squares (PLS) model to predict the performance of new RNA molecules based on their features. This study provides a new method for controlling gene expression in a more efficient and cost-effective way, which has important implications for industrial biotechnology.
The idea that groups of neurons work together to process information is a fundamental concept in neuroscience. However, identifying these groups of neurons and understanding how they communicate with each other has been difficult because it requires a way to distinguish the activity within a group from the activity outside of the group.  Researchers have tried using different methods to identify groups of neurons, including looking at similarities in the local field potential (LFP) and synchronization in the spiking activity of individual neurons. These methods have been used to identify groups of neurons at different cortical sites during discrete responses to stimuli, such as movements and behavioral tasks. However, many studies have focused on similarities in the LFP, which is a waveform that reflects the aggregate activity of neurons at a specific cortical site. Researchers have found that transient phase-locking across cortical sites can be seen in the β- or γ- frequency band of the LFP during voluntary movements and behavioral task performances in primates and EEG in humans. This has been proposed to reflect neuronal interactions. However, researchers have also found that transient phase-locking can be observed during ongoing cortical activity in monkeys. Because transient phase-locking includes different cortical sites at different times, this has been widely appreciated in the literature under the concept of “metastability.” If similarity is the defining property of associative activity, then the exact replication of activity at different sites might be the ultimate degree in similarity that can be utilized by the cortex. To examine this, researchers recorded ongoing activity from chronically implanted arrays in the motor, premotor, and somatosensory regions of two monkeys sitting quietly in a recording chair as well as from organotypic cultures from rat cortex. They found that there is a sigmoidal relationship between the amplitude of a deflection in the spontaneous LFP, reflecting the aggregate neuronal activity at a single cortical site and the occurrence of the identical LFP waveform and amplitude at other sites with millisecond delays. They also found that this phenomenon of all or none, loss-less propagation of activity at high amplitudes arises by virtue of synaptic transmission. These results suggest that there may be a “tipping point” in the cortical network dynamics, where a small increase in the number of participating neurons can suddenly lead to widespread cascades of activity. This is similar to the spread of ideas, innovations, and economic behavior in social networks.
The relationship between nuclear size and cell size has been studied in various types of cells and species, both unicellular and multicellular. This study focuses on multicellular animals and plants, and it found that in these organisms, the ratio between nuclear and cell size is generally restricted to a narrow range for cells of each type. However, genetic mutations and nutritional states were found to increase this ratio by 35 times in fission yeast. The study also found that nuclear volume is not directly determined by DNA content, and that it increases steadily with cell volume during interphase. This suggests that nuclear size is influenced by cell volume, and that other factors, such as diffusible cytoplasmic factors, are central to nuclear size control.
The article discusses the use of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) to treat conditions like Parkinson's disease and essential tremor. DBS involves the use of electrodes implanted in the brain to deliver electrical stimulation. The article highlights the importance of choosing the correct frequency for stimulation and that high frequency stimulation can suppress the pathological oscillations causing symptoms. The article introduces the concepts of adaptive DBS and phase-locked DBS, which involve delivering stimulation only when it is needed and according to the ongoing symptoms. The article also discusses a mathematical model called the Kuramoto model, which can be used to describe the effects of DBS on the phase and amplitude of oscillations. The article describes how the optimal stimulation intensity should depend on both the phase and amplitude of the ongoing oscillations, and presents a framework for testing theoretical predictions on experimental data. Finally, the article introduces a novel stimulation strategy based on the theories and methods found in the literature.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects over 230 million people worldwide. Snails of the genus Biomphalaria act as the parasite's intermediate host, which produce cercariae that infect humans, including those who may have been successfully treated in a control program. By themselves, preventive chemotherapy campaigns using mass drug administration have shown not to limit transmission in high-risk areas. A snail control is necessary for a comprehensive control program, but the traditional method used to detect the parasite has several limitations, such as the prepatent period, low-grade infections, and the aborted development of schistosomes in snails. Molecular xenomonitoring is an alternative to traditional methods, and we have developed a new rapid and simple loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay to detect S. mansoni in Biomphalaria glabrata snails under different situations of infection. The LAMP assay could be potentially useful for large-scale screening in searching infected snails with S. mansoni in field applicable conditions.
Dengue is a serious illness that affects over half of the world's population, mainly in tropical and subtropical regions. It can cause mild dengue fever or severe dengue hemorrhagic fever, which can be life-threatening. The number of people affected by dengue has increased dramatically in recent decades, particularly in Southeast Asia. This poses a significant challenge to countries with limited resources to control and prevent the spread of the disease. Dengue is a public health problem in Sri Lanka, with all four serotypes of the virus present and an increase in severe cases since the 1980s. Large dengue epidemics now occur regularly in Sri Lanka, affecting the entire population. The Ministry of Health in Sri Lanka is responsible for controlling dengue and other disease outbreaks. The main focus of dengue prevention is vector control, but this places a heavy financial burden on the Ministry of Health. The aim of this study was to estimate the public sector costs of dengue control activities and the direct costs of hospitalizations in Colombo district during the 2012 epidemic year. The findings will inform public health planning and decision-making in Sri Lanka and contribute to the growing body of literature on the costs of dengue prevention and treatment.
The way genetic diversity was distributed among modern European populations has been a topic of debate among scientists since genetic data became available. It is believed that anatomically modern humans, who originated in East Africa, migrated to Europe from the Near East around 40,000 years ago. During the last glacial maximum, populations retreated into peninsulas of Iberia, Italy, and the Balkans, and then spread northward from these refugia around 14,000 years ago. The adoption of agriculture, which originated in the Fertile Crescent in the Near East around 10,000 years ago, spread rapidly westwards via Anatolia, reaching Ireland by 6,000 years ago. Scientists have been debating whether the spread of agriculture was due to the movement and expansion of Near-Eastern farmers (demographic diffusion) or to the transmission of cultural innovation to existing populations (acculturation), who then themselves expanded. The observation of southeast-northwest frequency clines for “classical” genetic markers, autosomal DNA markers, and Y-chromosomal markers has been used to support the demographic diffusion model. However, some frequency clines may simply reflect isolation by distance or the final destination of a wave of migration into thinly populated territory, where expansion and drift have had their greatest effects. The origins of a frequency cline of a lineage can be illuminated by analyzing the diversity within it. For example, by using multiple microsatellites, scientists were able to analyze the diversity within haplogroup R1b1b2, which is the major western European lineage that has a frequency that follows a cline from 12% in Eastern Turkey to 85% in Ireland. The analysis showed that the geographical distribution of diversity within haplogroup R1b1b2 is best explained by its spread from a single source from the Near East via Anatolia during the Neolithic. Taken together with the evidence on the origins of many other European haplogroups, this suggests that the great majority of the Y chromosomes of Europeans have their origins in the Neolithic expansion.
In this paper, we review the importance of motor variability in movement control and learning. Motor variability refers to the small differences in how a person moves their body from one repetition to the next. Studies have shown that motor variability is influenced by many factors, including execution noise, sensory uncertainty, and disturbances in the environment. There is evidence that motor variability can be beneficial for both perception and learning. However, the relationship between motor variability and learning rate is not always consistent. This is because the sources of motor variability can affect learning rate in different ways. In this paper, we present computer simulations and experiments to explore the relationship between motor variability and learning rate. Our results suggest that the relationship between these two variables is task-specific and can be influenced by sensory uncertainty. We also conducted a meta-analysis of previously published data to further explore the relationship between motor variability and learning rate. Overall, this paper highlights the complex nature of motor variability and its importance in movement control and learning.
The NF-κB family of proteins helps with the immune response when activated by a signal. In vertebrates, there are five members of the NF-κB family: RelA (also called p65), RelB, c-Rel, p50, and p52. All of the family members have an RHR domain for DNA binding and dimerization, but only RelA, RelB, and c-Rel have a TAD for transcriptional regulation. In unstimulated cells, NF-κB is held in the cytoplasm by the IκB proteins, which mask the nuclear localization signal. When a signal is received, the IκB proteins are degraded, releasing the NF-κB dimers to enter the nucleus and activate transcription by binding to their target genes' promoters. To activate transcription, NF-κB needs to interact with other proteins, such as CBP/p300, which helps bridge the basal transcription machinery. It was thought that NF-κB recruited CBP/p300 to its target promoters, but new research has shown that CBP/p300 is already preloaded on these promoters. In this study, researchers determined the structure of RelA (a member of the NF-κB family) bound to CBP/p300 to understand the role of their interaction in transcription initiation. They also created mutations in RelA's TAD to determine which residues are necessary for binding CBP/p300. The researchers found that CBP/p300 is preloaded on the promoter regions of RelA-target genes, and that RelA:CBP/p300 interaction is necessary for recruitment of RelA to its target promoter sites. These findings provide new insights into the NF-κB family of proteins and their role in the immune response.
In this paper, we present the Time-course Gene Set Analysis (TcGSA) method, which is a novel approach to analyzing the change of gene expression over time. This approach is designed for use in longitudinal microarray experiments and uses a gene set analysis approach, which is a statistical method for identifying groups of genes that work together. By analyzing the dynamics of gene expression inside the gene set, TcGSA can detect any significant changes in gene expression over time, even if the change is complex and heterogeneous. TcGSA uses a linear mixed effects model, which is a statistical tool for longitudinal data that has been well established in the field. This model allows TcGSA to account for missing values and unbalanced designs, making it robust to data that may not be complete or well-balanced. TcGSA has been tested using simulations and applied to two studies of vaccine trials. In both studies, TcGSA was able to detect changes of additional gene sets compared to gene-by-gene analyses, endorsing previous conclusions and revealing common pathways across the three vaccines.
The article describes the development of a comprehensive evidence-based approach to mapping the endemicity of Plasmodium vivax malaria worldwide. P. vivax is a major human malaria parasite that is not well understood and often overlooked, and this study aims to fill in some of the gaps in knowledge. The study was conducted using a variety of data sources, including surveys, medical literature, and other sources, to build a picture of where P. vivax malaria occurs and how common it is in different parts of the world. The results of the study were then used to create maps of P. vivax malaria risk, which can be used to help plan and implement effective strategies for controlling and eliminating the disease.
Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) in humans with over 11 million outpatient visits and almost 500,000 hospital admissions in the United States annually. S. aureus SSTIs routinely manifest as cutaneous abscesses that limit the penetration and efficacy of antibiotics. A vaccine specifically targeted against SSTIs would be beneficial. S. aureus expresses up to 25 different cell wall-anchored (CWA) proteins, which are primarily involved in adhesion and invasion of host cells and tissues, biofilm formation and immune evasion. A study on ClfB, a CWA protein, showed that it has a high affinity interaction with the cornified envelope and plays a role in nasal colonization. ClfB has not been previously studied in S. aureus skin infection. This study aimed to elucidate the role of ClfB during S. aureus skin infection and to assess its potential as a candidate vaccine antigen specifically targeting SSTIs.
HIV is a major public health challenge, and even though it can be controlled with treatment, it can still hide in cellular and anatomical reservoirs for a long time. This means that we cannot cure HIV, so preventing its transmission is very important. The United Nations set a goal to end AIDS by 2030, and one of the ways to achieve this goal is through a type of prevention called PrEP. PrEP involves taking a medication that can prevent HIV infection. Truvada is one of the medications that has been studied for PrEP, and it is currently being used. However, Truvada has some shortcomings, such as being expensive, not protecting from infection perfectly, and requiring daily intake, which often leads to inadequate adherence. There are other medications and drug formulations that could be used for PrEP, and some of these are being studied. However, it is difficult to determine which ones are the most effective in preventing HIV infection. Researchers have developed a computer model that can predict the effectiveness of different PrEP strategies. This model takes into account the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the medications, as well as the characteristics of the virus. By using this model, researchers can test different PrEP strategies and see which ones are the most effective in preventing HIV infection. This can help them decide which medications and drug formulations to use for PrEP, and how often to give them to people.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a type of virus that can cause serious liver diseases such as cirrhosis and liver cancer. HCV has a special type of RNA genome and produces a big polyprotein that is cut into smaller pieces to make the necessary proteins for replication. These proteins can cause autophagy, a process that helps cells remove waste and recycle materials. In HCV-infected cells, autophagosomes (membrane-bound vesicles that carry waste to be recycled) accumulate, but it is not clear whether HCV makes these autophagosomes fuse with lysosomes (which break down waste) or not. In this study, the authors found that HCV can induce both Rubicon and UVRAG, two proteins that are important for autophagy. However, Rubicon is induced quickly while UVRAG is induced later, leading to a delay in the maturation of autophagosomes and the accumulation of them in the early stages of HCV infection. This suggests that HCV, by regulating the expression of these two proteins differently, can control the autophagic flux (the process of autophagosomes being broken down) to enhance its own replication.
Cyclins are a group of proteins that work together with cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) to control the cell cycle. Cyclins A and B are the founding members of the cyclin family and are known to regulate the cell cycle by activating CDK1. Other cyclins, such as CCNY, can regulate transcription and other cellular processes, but not necessarily the cell cycle. CCNY is highly conserved among metazoa, and has recently been shown to interact with CDK16 in regulating spermatogenesis in males. In this study, we found that CCNYL1 is a newly identified orphan cyclin that is highly expressed in spermatocytes and spermatids. Deletion of CCNYL1 leads to impaired sperm motility and defects in sperm structural integrity, which can cause male infertility. We also demonstrated that CCNYL1 is required for the interaction with CDK16 and that the interaction results in increased protein stability and CDK16 kinase activity. These results identify a novel functional role for CCNYL1 in spermatogenesis and male fertility.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) are a type of bacteria that can cause diarrhea and a serious complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome ( HUS ) . HUS can lead to kidney failure and is the most common cause of acute kidney failure in children. EHEC produce several toxins that can damage cells, including a toxin called EHEC-Hly. This toxin is a cytolysin that can damage microvascular endothelial cells, which are cells that line blood vessels. It is becoming increasingly clear that EHEC-Hly plays a role in the pathogenesis of HUS. The toxin is produced by most strains of EHEC that are associated with HUS and is detected in the stools of most HUS patients. Previous research has shown that EHEC-Hly can cause hemolysis, or the breakdown of red blood cells, when it is either free or associated with outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ). This study investigates the ability of OMV-associated EHEC-Hly to bind to human microvascular endothelial cells and intestinal epithelial cells, and to trigger cell injury. The study shows that OMV-associated EHEC-Hly is internalized by the cells via the OMVs, but separates from its carrier and targets mitochondria, causing apoptosis via the intrinsic caspase-9-dependent pathway.
Transcription is the process of reading the DNA code and making a copy of it. This copy is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. During transcription, the DNA code is read by an enzyme called RNAPII. This enzyme adds the nucleotides to the mRNA chain in a specific order. Transcription is accompanied by post-translational modifications of nucleosomal histones. These modifications are highly conserved in a specific pattern, which includes methylation of histone H3 Lys4 (H3K4me), acetylation of histones H3 and H4 at 5′ ends, methylation of histone H3 Lys36 (H3K36me), and mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2B at a conserved site in the carboxyl-terminus (H2Bub1). These modifications are important for regulating transcription, but their specific functions are not well understood. Cdk9 is a protein that helps regulate transcription by phosphorylating RNAPII. This phosphorylation helps to control the recruitment of other proteins that are important for transcription. Cdk9 also phosphorylates Spt5, a protein that is part of a complex that helps control RNAPII. H2Bub1 is important for controlling the activity of Cdk9. Deleting the gene that codes for the enzyme that puts the H2Bub1 modification on histones, or blocking the activity of Cdk9 with a drug, both lead to a decrease in H2Bub1. Similarly, deleting the gene for Spt5 also leads to a decrease in H2Bub1. These findings suggest that Cdk9 and H2Bub1 work together to control transcription. When either one of them is missing or not working properly, transcription is disrupted.
The disease known as yellow fever (YF) has been a major concern for centuries. It spreads through mosquito bites and can be fatal. In the 15th to 19th centuries, it caused many outbreaks in port cities and led to the expansion of settlements and colonial powers. Researchers have identified the virus that causes yellow fever (YFV) and have found a way to prevent its spread. However, despite the availability of a vaccine, the disease continues to be a major problem in some parts of the world, including West Africa. Researchers have studied the evolution of YFV to better understand its origin and spread. They found that YFV likely originated in Africa and was introduced to the Americas during the slave trade.
Pneumococci are microorganisms that live in the nose and throat of humans without causing any harm. However, sometimes they can cause serious diseases, such as ear infection, pneumonia, and sepsis. There are ways to prevent these diseases, including vaccination. In this study, researchers wanted to understand at which stage in the pathogenesis of pneumococcal diseases these bacteria have a weak point. They studied this in an animal model and found that the stage when pneumococci move from the nose and throat into the middle ear cavity is a potential weak point. This stage is also important because it is when pneumococci can cause ear infection. The researchers believe that targeting this weak point could help to control pneumococcal diseases.
Phlebotomine sand flies are bloodsucking insects that can transmit parasites that cause a deadly disease called visceral leishmaniasis. One type of sand fly, called Phlebotomus orientalis, is particularly important for spreading the disease in Eastern Africa. Scientists have found that this sand fly feeds on both humans and animals, which could mean that the disease is transmitted both from humans to animals and vice versa. During the blood-feeding process, the sand fly injects saliva into the host's skin, which contains a mixture of proteins. Some of these proteins trigger an immune response in the host, and scientists have found that these proteins can be used as a way to measure exposure to sand fly bites. In this study, scientists have produced a new way of making these proteins in the lab, and they have tested whether these new proteins can be used to measure exposure to P. orientalis bites in humans from endemic areas of Eastern Africa.
The article describes the mechanism of horizontal gene transfer in bacteria, specifically through the use of a type IV secretion system (T4SS). T4SSs are complex nano-machines that span the cell envelope and translocate DNA substrates from a donor to a recipient cell. Conjugative plasmids and integrative and conjugative elements (ICEs) code for T4SS to promote their own dissemination by conjugation. The article focuses on IncC plasmids and their relation to IncA plasmids, which are both self-transmissible mobile genetic elements. These plasmids often bear a gene cargo of metal and antibiotic resistance genes, virulence determinants, and other traits with potential selective advantages for the bacterial host. The article describes the replication, stability, conjugative transfer, and regulation of IncC plasmids, including the role of repressors Acr1 and Acr2 in controlling expression of the conjugative transfer genes. The article also discusses the excision of unrelated mobilizable genomic islands (MGIs) from the chromosome and their IncC-dependent dissemination into new bacterial hosts. One such MGI is Salmonella genomic island 1 (SGI1), which is often found in S. enterica and Proteus mirabilis clinical isolates. SGI1 is thought to hijack the conjugative apparatus encoded by IncA and IncC plasmids to transfer to a new host cell. The article explores the role of the putative T4SS subunits encoded by SGI1 in SGI1 spread and whether these subunits are important for SGI1 mobilization. The article also discusses the importance of AcaCD control on the expression of tra genes of SGI1, which are important for SGI1 mobilization. The article investigates the role of each TraC/TraS subunit on the formation of the mating pore and its proficiency to mediate transfer of SGI1 and/or the helper IncC plasmid. Finally, the article demonstrates that substitution of the TraG subunit enables SGI1 to escape an entry exclusion mechanism encoded by IncC plasmids.
DNA damage can occur due to various reasons, including exposure to harmful chemicals and radiation, which can lead to mutations and cancer. To repair such damage, a checkpoint system has evolved in cells to detect and respond to DNA damage. When a double-strand break (DSB) occurs, the DNA ends are resected to create single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), which is recognized by the checkpoint sensors to activate the DNA damage response. In yeast, the checkpoint sensors include the 9-1-1 complex (Ddc1, Mec3, Rad17), Mec1 kinase, and Tel1 kinase, which localize to the site of DNA damage and promote the activation of downstream effector kinases. In this study, the authors overexpressed a protein called Cdc5 in yeast cells and found that damage-induced hyperphosphorylation of Rad53 was lost, and the cells reentered the cell-division cycle despite the persistence of DNA damage.
In this study, the authors present a new electrodiffusive modeling framework for simulating ion dynamics in the extracellular space (ECS) of brain tissue. The new framework, called the Kirchhoff-Nernst-Planck (KNP) scheme, is based on the assumption of quasi-electroneutrality in the bulk ECS, which simplifies the calculations and makes it possible to simulate large spatiotemporal scales. The authors compare the KNP scheme with the more detailed Poisson-Nernst-Planck (PNP) scheme and find that the KNP scheme works well in many situations. They also show that the KNP scheme can be used to model 3-D brain tissue and that it can predict long-term ECS ion-concentration dynamics. The authors expect that their new modeling framework will be useful for future studies of pathological conditions associated with large shifts in ECS ion concentrations.
The 2011 US government proposed cutting $26.7 million from the CDC's program for diseases spread by insects like mosquitoes [1]. This could have a serious impact on the ability of the US to detect and respond to diseases that are already spreading in the country, like dengue fever and West Nile virus [1]. These diseases can be spread by mosquitoes and can be very dangerous, so it is important for the US to be able to detect and respond to them quickly [2]. To better understand the economic impact of different responses to the introduction of a new disease into a city, we used a mathematical model and a cost analysis. This will help health officials make better decisions on how to respond to this new threat.
Dengue is a rapidly spreading virus that causes high fevers and can lead to severe illness. Nicaragua experienced a dengue outbreak in 1985, and a similar outbreak occurred in 1995. Since then, only one of the four dengue serotypes has dominated each season in Nicaragua. To determine if dengue was a common cause of acute febrile illness in Nicaragua, researchers studied patients who presented with high fevers to a hospital in León, which is the second largest city in the country. The study lasted 10 months, from August 2008 to May 2009.
This paper presents the role of plant defense responses to parasitic nematodes. The parasitic nematodes target the roots of plants and induce the formation of feeding sites. These feeding sites are regulated by secreted molecules and effectors from the nematodes. The plants have evolved ways to recognize these secreted molecules through pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) which activate the plant's defense mechanisms. The paper highlights the importance of the BAK1 receptor in recognizing nematode molecules and triggering PTI responses. The paper also discusses the role of R-genes in plant resistance to nematodes. The study shows that nematodes induce PTI-like responses in plants, which rely on the perception of elicitors by membrane-localized LRR-RLKs.
This article discusses the use of miltefosine, a drug that was first developed for the treatment of breast cancer, in the treatment of schistosomiasis. The authors discuss the drug's potential effectiveness in treating different stages of the schistosome life cycle, including invasive, immature and adult parasites. They also explain how the drug affects the parasite's cell membrane, which is important for its effectiveness. Additionally, the authors discuss the possibility of the drug exposing hidden antigens on the parasite's surface, which could be important for the host immune response. The authors conclude that miltefosine could be a potential alternative therapeutic control for schistosomiasis, and that it warrants further investigation.
Iron is a vital element that is necessary for the growth and survival of many microorganisms, including bacteria. Bacteria have different ways of obtaining iron, such as through siderophores or by directly binding to iron-containing proteins like transferrins or hemoglobin. One type of bacteria, called Staphylococcus aureus, uses a system called Isd (Iron-regulated surface determinant) to bind to hemoglobin and acquire iron. Other bacteria, such as Streptococcus pyogenes and Bacillus anthracis, have a system called NEAT (NEAr iron Transporter) that is involved in heme binding. The protein IlsA, found in Bacillus cereus, is a unique combination of three conserved domains: an N-Terminal NEAT domain, 13 LRRs (Leucine Rich Repeat), and three C-Terminal SLH domains. The NEAT domain in IlsA is involved in heme and hemoglobin binding, while the LRRs and SLH domains are thought to be involved in protein-protein interactions. The ΔilsA mutant of B. cereus is less virulent in an insect model, suggesting that IlsA plays a role in virulence. The authors used isothermal titration calorimetry to show that IlsA can bind to ferritin and that the binding stoichiometry is 24 IlsA molecules per ferritin molecule. In vitro iron release experiments showed that the presence of IlsA significantly increased the amount of iron released from ferritin. The authors also found that bacillibactin, a siderophore produced by B. cereus, is necessary for the acquisition of iron from ferritin. They suggest that IlsA and bacillibactin may work synergistically to effectively mobilize iron from host ferritin.
A new study by researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, provides new insight into the workings of a biological clock in a single-cell organism called Synechococcus elongatus. The clock, which allows the organism to anticipate changes in day and night, is driven by the turnover of ATP molecules. The researchers found that the phosphorylation of certain proteins in the clock is driven by ATP hydrolysis in one part of the protein, while the dephosphorylation is driven by the transfer of phosphate groups from the proteins back to ATP. The researchers propose that the hydrolysis of ATP in one part of the protein is the main driving force behind the clock. This discovery provides new insights into the workings of biological clocks and could have important implications for understanding and manipulating these clocks in a variety of applications.
The human hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major public health problem that causes about 600,000 deaths annually. Chronic hepatitis can lead to liver failure or cancer. HBV has a small genome that contains multiple proteins such as hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), core (HBcAg), e antigen (HBeAg), and polymerase. HBx, a protein coded by the X ORF, affects many cellular functions and has a significant impact on mitochondrial homeostasis and function. In previous studies, HBx was found to be localized to mitochondria and to interact with the outer mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel. HBx expression results in the loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, an increase in reactive oxygen species, and an increase in mitochondrial calcium levels. Mitochondria play an important role in innate immune signaling, and a protein called MAVS is a central adaptor molecule in this process. RIG-I is a cytoplasmic sensor that recognizes viral RNA and activates MAVS, which then interacts with TBK1 to activate IRF3 and induce the synthesis of interferon-beta. The HBV polymerase has been shown to inhibit this process by downregulating MAVS expression and disrupting the MAVS-complex. Recent studies suggest that HBV also induces mitochondrial translocation of Parkin, which then ubiquitinates MAVS and recruits LUBAC to the mitochondria to form M-1 linked polyubiquitin chains. This process disrupts the interaction between MAVS and downstream TRAFs, leading to abrogation of IRF3 activation. Overall, these studies show that HBV uses Parkin to cripple the cellular antiviral response by disrupting mitochondria-associated antiviral signaling.
The article introduces a new superantigen called pfiT, which is a protein found in a common environmental bacteria, Pseudomonas fluorescens. This protein has been linked to the development of Crohn's disease, a chronic inflammatory bowel disease. The article presents evidence that pfiT can activate T cells in a way that is similar to other superantigens, by directly interacting with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins. The article also presents a high-resolution crystal structure of pfiT, which shows that it belongs to a new family of superantigens. Overall, the article suggests that pfiT may play a role in the development of Crohn's disease and that it represents a new class of superantigens.
Nanog is a protein that helps embryonic stem cells (ESCs) to stay the same and divide. Nanog helps mESCs stay the same and divide even if they are not getting a certain kind of food (leukemia inhibitory factor or LIF). If Nanog is not there, mESCs change and stop being able to stay the same and divide. Nanog also helps hESCs stay the same and divide. Nanog can be turned up or down to make hESCs go through different processes. Growth factors like basic FGF and activin A help keep hESCs the same. Nanog is found in different levels in mESCs and hESCs. This fluctuation is caused by the way Nanog works together with other proteins and by processes that happen at the cell level. This makes the stem cells different from each other. Scientists have used mathematical models to understand how Nanog works in stem cells. These models show that stem cells can be in two different states: one where they can stay the same and divide, and one where they can start to go through a process where they become different types of cells. Some scientists have found that mESCs express Nanog from only one of their two sets of genes (alleles). This means that mESCs are divided into four groups based on whether they express Nanog from one, both or neither of their alleles. This means that there are three different ways that mESCs can be, which is different from what was thought before. Scientists have put together a new mathematical model that includes this new information about how Nanog works. They also looked at data from studies that used stem cells with a reporter gene in one of their Nanog alleles. They found that the way that Nanog works is different from what was thought before and that the reporter gene studies can be interpreted differently. They also looked at the signature of Nanog in stem cells that have one Nanog allele turned down. They found that these stem cells can stay the same and divide even though they have less Nanog and are more likely to go through a process where they become different types of cells.
The relationship between the production of proteins and the overall health of an organism plays a key role in evolution and regulation. In microorganisms, growth is an important part of overall fitness. Many microbes use a lot of their proteins to promote growth in certain environments. The benefits and costs of proteins are often measured by their impact on growth. However, there is currently no understanding of how much of the microbial proteome is unused or how much this fraction might vary from one environment to another. In this study, we use a mathematical model to determine how Escherichia coli uses its proteome across 16 different environments. We found that the amount of unused protein varies greatly from one environment to another. We also calculated the cost of producing unused protein and identified the processes and regulators that control changes in unused protein expression across environments. Our results show that unused protein production has a significant impact on fitness and can help microorganisms prepare for environmental changes.
This paper aims to identify genetic loci associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) in three different ethnic groups in Asia: Chinese, Malay, and Indian. Previous genetic studies of T2D have been conducted mainly in Europeans, but T2D is becoming a major health problem in Asia. Therefore, it is important to understand the genetic basis of T2D in Asian populations. The paper describes three genome-wide association studies (GWAS) conducted in Singapore, which has a multi-ethnic population. The study found 56 loci associated with T2D in the three ethnic groups, and several previously established T2D loci were also replicated. These results will help us understand the genetic architecture of T2D and identify new therapeutic targets for its treatment and prevention.
The article explains how the process of chromosome segregation is important for passing genetic material to the next generation. The mitotic spindle is the tool that helps this process happen and is powered by different proteins that help it move and function properly. There are different types of MTs (microtubules) that help with this process, but one type called cMTs (cytoplasmic MTs) are particularly important for the mitotic spindle to work properly. Various proteins help the MTs move and function properly, and one group of these proteins is called +TIPs. One of these proteins is Bim1, which helps the MTs move along the cortical actin cables. Another protein, called Kar9, helps the MTs attach to the spindle and also helps with the MTs moving along the cortical actin cables. Another important protein is dynein, which helps the spindle move by pushing the MTs. However, dynein is also controlled by other proteins to help it move in the right way. The process of chromosome segregation is different in a fungus called Cryptococcus neoformans, which can cause serious illnesses in humans. Researchers are studying this process in this fungus to better understand how it works and how it can be targeted for treatment. The article also explains the role of a protein called Ipl1 in this process and how it helps ensure that the right number of chromosomes are passed down to the next generation.
This paper presents a study of a man with medullary thyroid carcinoma who had a genetic mutation in the RET gene. The mutation was thought to have no effect on the protein produced by the gene, but further research showed that it actually had an impact on the way the protein was made. This finding suggests that other mutations that are thought to have no effect on the protein produced by a gene might actually be important in cancer.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a powerful tool for detecting pathogens that cause disease. It is faster and cheaper than traditional methods for diagnosing infections. NGS has been used successfully to identify pathogens in a number of case studies. However, a database of sequenced pathogens is necessary for NGS to be effective for diagnosis, but no database contains all the potential pathogens. Most reference databases also have contamination. To solve this problem, a new method has been developed to clean and filter reference genomes of contamination. This can be used to reduce false positive and false negative rates in NGS-based diagnosis.
Trypanosoma brucei is a parasite that causes different forms of African Trypanosomiasis (AT). Tbb and Tbr are two subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei that cause two different types of human trypanosomiasis. Tbr causes the acute form and Tbg causes the chronic form. These subspecies have different geographical distributions and host specificity. Uganda is the only country in Africa that harbors all three subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei. There are traditional old foci of Tbr in south-east Uganda and new foci that have emerged in central Uganda. The spread of disease from the old foci to the new foci has been attributed to the movement of cattle carrying Tbr. The genetic exchange between Tbb and Tbr has been investigated by analyzing 17 highly variable microsatellite loci from 269 Tbb and Tbr isolates from Uganda and western Kenya. The study revealed that Tbr and Tbb have different population structures, and that there is limited genetic exchange between the two subspecies. However, there is evidence of genetic exchange within the Tbr subspecies. This genetic exchange can lead to the emergence of new human infective strains, which is of critical relevance for disease control.
The thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) was first identified as a gene that changes in response to the hormone vitamin D in cells. TXNIP is a member of the arrestin protein family and interacts with a protein called thioredoxin, which helps fight oxidative stress. It's believed that TXNIP plays a role in a lot of different cellular processes, including the response to stress, cell growth and death. Studies have shown that TXNIP levels are lower in many types of cancer cells, suggesting that it may be a tumor suppressor. In addition, TXNIP may be able to prevent cancer cells from spreading to other parts of the body. Recent research has shown that TXNIP is involved in the body's immune response, particularly in the production of a molecule called nitric oxide (NO). NO is important for fighting pathogens in the body. It was found that TXNIP is related to a complex called the NLRP3 inflammasome, which helps fight infection. NO can stop the NLRP3 inflammasome from working properly. It was found that Txnip−/− mice (mice without the TXNIP gene) were more likely to get a severe reaction to the infection-fighting molecule LPS. This reaction was caused by an increase in NO production and a resulting increase in the protein iNOS. This suggests that TXNIP plays a crucial role in the body's immune response by helping regulate NO production through the NF-κB/iNOS pathway. In addition, NO production was also increased in Txnip−/− cells, which inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activation. This shows that TXNIP plays a critical role in the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome during endotoxic shock.
This study looked at how the protein ZTF-8 helps repair damaged DNA in the worm Caenorhabditis elegans. ZTF-8 is found in all animals, and the researchers found that it plays a role in repairing DNA damage that occurs during replication and meiosis in the worm germline. They also found that ZTF-8 helps activate a DNA damage checkpoint in late pachytene, a stage of meiosis. The researchers believe that ZTF-8 helps repair DNA damage at stalled replication forks and meiotic DSBs, and that it does this by activating a 9-1-1 pathway. They also found that the human version of ZTF-8, called RHINO, can rescue some of the defects caused by the absence of ZTF-8.
Scientists have found that the development of embryonic tissues relies on gene regulatory networks that control patterns of gene expression, tissue growth, and cell differentiation. To do this, progenitor cells are exposed to a gradient of Shh signaling, which controls the expression of genes that form a regulatory hierarchy. This results in distinct domains along the dorsal-ventral axis, each containing a specific combination of transcription factors that determine the identity of the postmitotic neurons generated by progenitors in that domain. For example, in the ventral spinal cord, Shh signaling induces the expression of Olig2, which represses the expression of Irx3 and Bhlhb5. This results in the differentiation of motor neurons, which emerge faster than interneurons. The scientists used scRNA-seq to analyze the development of ventral spinal cord progenitors and to infer the gene regulatory mechanisms by which Olig2 promotes motor neuron differentiation. They found that motor neuron progenitors commit to differentiation asynchronously, limiting the temporal resolution of conventional gene expression assays. However, they developed a method to reconstruct the differentiation trajectory from scRNA-seq data, which identified two distinct phases in motor neuron differentiation. The first phase involves an initial Olig2LOW state, during which Hes1 expression decreases and Olig2 is coexpressed with Hes5. The second phase involves an Olig2HIGH state, in which high levels of Olig2 promote differentiation by repressing Hes5, thereby indirectly inducing Ngn2. The scientists validated this two-phase model using quantitative image analysis of a fluorescent Olig2 reporter and provided in vitro and in vivo evidence that Olig2 acts directly on Hes genes to promote cell cycle exit and neurogenesis in the motor neuron progenitor domain. Together, these findings provide a comprehensive view of the regulatory network that controls the specification of motor neuron progenitors and identify a molecular mechanism coordinating the specification of positional identity with differentiation.
In 2009, a new type of influenza virus, known as H1N1pdm, emerged and rapidly spread worldwide. This new virus was more dangerous than typical seasonal viruses, and many people didn't have the right kind of antibodies to fight it. Scientists wanted to make a vaccine to protect people against the new virus, but they didn't have enough time. They used old, seasonal viruses to create a vaccine that could at least help protect against the new virus. This vaccine worked by using T cells to fight the new virus. T cells are a type of white blood cell that can kill infected cells and help the body fight off diseases. Scientists already knew that T cells could help fight against different types of viruses. They found that people who had been infected with a different type of influenza virus in the past had T cells that could help fight against the new virus. They also found that when people were vaccinated with an old virus, they had T cells that could help fight against the new virus. Scientists also used lab animals, such as ferrets and mice, to study how T cells can help fight against the new virus. They found that T cells can help protect against the new virus by reducing the amount of virus in the body and by making the infection less severe.
Q fever is a worldwide infection caused by bacteria called Coxiella burnetii. The disease can be acute or chronic, and the bacteria is highly resistant to physical and chemical factors. Q fever is usually transmitted through aerosol inhalation and can be caused by exposure to hard and soft ticks, as well as livestock and domestic animals. Cattle, sheep, and goats are the most common sources of infection. Q fever is often misdiagnosed and treatment of the acute phase with antibiotics is effective but not always successful. Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is a potential diagnostic tool for Q fever and is sensitive, specific, and can generate up to 109-fold amplification in less than an hour under isothermal conditions. In this study, we developed a rapid, sensitive, and specific assay using LAMP and compared it with a real time PCR previously developed in our laboratory.
Normal cells in the body have a specific identity. Cancer cells do not. Cancer cells can act like embryonic stem cells (ES), which are cells that can develop into any type of cell. Both cancer cells and ES have special genes that are turned on and off. These genes are controlled by small pieces of the chromosome called enhancers, which can be found in many different parts of the genome. The enhancers in ES are very similar to the enhancers in cancer cells. We wanted to find out how the enhancers in cancer cells were different from the enhancers in normal cells. We used DNA methylation data to study the enhancers in hematopoietic cells (which are part of the immune system) and cancer cells that develop from those cells. We found that enhancers in cancer cells that are not present in normal cells were more likely to be changed in their DNA methylation. These changes in DNA methylation were related to the genes that were closest to the enhancers. This suggests that the enhancers in cancer cells may cause the nearby genes to turn on and off in different ways than they do in normal cells. This could be one way that cancer cells become different from normal cells.
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus can help progress up a rugged fitness landscape. This ruggedness can arise from epistasis, the interactions between genetic variants. A fitness valley occurs when two mutations together yield a benefit while each of them alone is detrimental. Population structure can play an important role in evolution. In particular, the time taken to cross a fitness valley or plateau depends on population size since stochastic effects such as genetic drift have an increased importance in small populations. Subdivision into demes allows the maintenance of larger genetic diversity and allows quasi-independent explorations of the fitness landscape. This may facilitate valley or plateau crossing locally and subsequent migration can then spread beneficial mutations throughout the entire subdivided population (metapopulation). The importance of this effect has been the subject of a long debate. We investigated the role of subdivision in a generic and minimal model, without additional effects such as strong dependence of deme size on fitness or extinction and refounding of demes. We determined the conditions under which subdivision accelerates fitness valley or plateau crossing and found that isolated demes must be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing. Using Markov chain theory, we obtained analytical expressions for the parameter range where valley or plateau crossing by a metapopulation is as fast as that of its fastest deme. We verified our analytical predictions using stochastic simulations. We also discussed the effect of varying the degree of subdivision of a population and the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs. Finally, we extended our work to weakly beneficial mutations and to a population connected to smaller islands, and we discussed the magnitude and robustness of the effect for realistic parameter values.
The dengue virus (DENV) is transmitted from humans to mosquitoes and then back to humans through mosquito bites. When a mosquito bites an infected human, the blood meal is deposited in the midgut, where infection occurs in the midgut epithelium. While digestion of the blood meal is complete within 48 hours, viral replication in the midgut tissue reaches its peak around 7 to 8 days post-blood meal ingestion. The virus then disseminates to other tissues such as the fat body and salivary glands, where it can be transmitted to another human through a mosquito bite. Membranes are crucial for the life cycle of DENV, facilitating virus release from infected cells and re-entry into new cells through fusion of virus-host membranes. In both human and mosquito cells, lipids play an integral role in the life cycle of DENV. Intracellular membrane reorganization occurs upon DENV infection, imposing a significant metabolic cost to the host cell. In this study, we used high-resolution mass spectrometry to explore metabolic changes in the midgut of Aedes aegypti exposed to DENV-containing blood meals. We compared metabolic profiles of infected and uninfected midguts at early-, mid- (peak viral replication), and late time points post-infection. We found significant fluctuations in molecules that function as membrane building blocks, bioactive messengers, energy storage molecules, and intermediates in lipid biosynthesis and lipolysis pathways. These changes may represent both manipulation of cellular resources for viral replication as well as the cellular response to infection. They may result from either de novo biosynthesis or the consumption/conversion of metabolites. Import pathways are specifically important in the mosquito for molecules such as cholesterol and its derivatives since they cannot be synthesized de novo. Many unidentified metabolites (not found in currently available databases that include animal, plant, fungal, and bacterial metabolites and synthetic compounds) were also significantly perturbed during virus infection and may represent mosquito-specific metabolites that have not yet been annotated. Identifying metabolic bottlenecks that condition vector competence and transmission of these pathogens could be exploited for novel transmission-blocking interventions for control of globally important diseases.
This article describes the development of a new model for the action potential (AP) of rabbit ventricular myocytes. This model is based on a parsimonious approach, which means that it uses only the essential parameters to make accurate predictions of the AP. The model is designed to be simple and computationally efficient, and is made up of a single equation for the sodium current (INa). This equation is derived from experimental data recorded from rabbit ventricular myocytes under physiological conditions. The authors also incorporate equations for the potassium current (IK1) into their model. They use this model to make predictions about the AP depolarization in single cells and the propagation of the AP in the whole heart. The authors compare their model to existing models of the rabbit ventricular AP, and find that their model is able to reproduce important electrophysiological phenomena with greater accuracy. They also demonstrate the ability of their model to reproduce complex phenomena such as alternans and spiral wave breakup, which suggests a new physiological mechanism for arrhythmia instabilities. Overall, the authors argue that their parsimonious model provides a useful tool for studying the electrophysiology of the rabbit heart.
Scientists have found a process that involves breaking DNA to ensure that new cells are formed with the right number of chromosomes. This process occurs during meiosis in humans, animals, and plants. It also happens during the formation of lymphocytes (white blood cells) in animals and during the development of ciliates, a type of unicellular organism. To study this process, the scientists looked at a specific type of DNA break that occurs during the development of the somatic (non-sexual) nucleus in the ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia. The scientists found that two types of DNA breaks occur in this process and that they are joined together in a specific way. This process ensures that the DNA is repaired in a precise and correct way, so that the new cells have the right number of chromosomes. The scientists have described this process in detail and have proposed a model for how it works.
Chagas disease is a major public health problem in Latin America and has spread to non-endemic countries due to globalization and migration. It is estimated that over 25 million people are at risk of infection worldwide. The United States and Spain have the most T. cruzi-infected individuals outside of Latin America. Chagas disease is associated with sudden death, but this is mostly from a time before the introduction of drugs that changed the course of heart failure, such as beta-blockers, ACEI, and ARB. There is a lack of recent research on the mode of death in Chagas heart disease. Chagas heart disease can cause complex arrhythmias and heart failure, and it is important to understand the natural history of patients with systolic dysfunction in order to develop effective health policies and improve survival. In this study, we aimed to investigate the mode of death of patients with heart failure caused by Chagas disease, and compare it to non-Chagas cardiomyopathy.
A recent study explored the interactions between plants and the viruses that infect them. It found that plants have developed defense mechanisms against viruses, such as the hypersensitive response and RNA interference. These defense mechanisms are controlled by genes that are part of the innate host defenses. The study also found that a specific protein from viruses, called NSP, interacts with a protein called NIK, which is part of a group of proteins called LRR-II RLKs. This interaction suppresses the activity of NIK and leads to a defense response that is resistant to viruses. The study also found that a protein called rpL10A interacts with NIK and is a target of NIK phosphorylation. This suggests that rpL10A plays a crucial role in the defense response mediated by NIK.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a fungus that can cause a disease called Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM). This fungus is able to survive in harsh environments and within the host cells. In order to survive, P. brasiliensis has developed a defense mechanism against reactive oxygen species (ROS), which are harmful molecules produced by the host immune cells. This defense mechanism includes enzymes such as superoxide dismutase and catalases, which help the fungus to survive within the host cells. However, a recent study has suggested that an alternative oxidase (AOX) is also involved in this defense mechanism. The AOX helps to regulate energy production and metabolism, as well as to reduce the toxic effects of ROS.
The brain of rodents has a unique way of storing memories. When a rodent is in a certain location, its brain creates a "map" of that location. This map contains information about both the location itself and the features of the surrounding environment, such as the color or shape of walls. When the rodent is moved to a new location, its brain creates an entirely new map. However, when the features of the surrounding environment are changed while the rodent remains in the same location, the "map" of that location changes as well. This is known as "rate remapping." Previous research has shown that place cells, which are responsible for creating these maps, can change their firing rate, or the number of times they fire, in response to different environmental features. However, it is unclear how these changes occur. Some scientists believe that these changes are due to "attractor networks," which are like maps within the brain that help us remember information. Other scientists believe that these changes are due to nonlinear systems, which are systems that do not follow simple, predictable rules. In this study, the researchers developed a new model that combines the ideas of attractor networks and nonlinear systems to explain how place cells change their firing rate in response to different environmental features. This new model helps to explain the conflicting evidence from previous research on rate remapping and attractor networks.
When organisms are exposed to oxidative stress, which can cause damage to key biomolecules such as proteins, lipids, and DNA, they utilize effective defense mechanisms to protect themselves. These defense mechanisms include antioxidant enzymes and free radical scavengers. However, it is becoming increasingly accepted that post-translational mechanisms are also important players of cellular responses to oxidative stress. Entamoeba histolytica, a parasite that causes dysentery and extra intestinal abscesses in millions of inhabitants of endemic areas, is microaerophilic and has been shown to consume oxygen and tolerate low levels of oxygen pressure. E. histolytica is also exposed to reactive oxygen or nitrogen species (ROS and RNS) during tissue invasion, colonization, and extra intestinal propagation. E. histolytica lacks most of the components involved in the usual antioxidant defense mechanisms in aerobic organisms, but it possesses several proteins such as peroxiredoxin, superoxide dismutase, rubrerythrin, hybrid-cluster protein, and flavo-di-iron proteins for detoxification of ROS and RNS. In the present study, the authors used capillary electrophoresis time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CE-TOFMS) to simultaneously detect and quantify hundreds of intermediary metabolites of primary metabolism in E. histolytica upon oxidative stress. The data highlighted several unanticipated oxidative stress-mediated metabolomic changes and discussed their relevance in relation to oxidative stress in E. histolytica. In addition to metabolomic analysis, the authors also evaluated the activities of several enzymes that are of potential importance in regulating observed metabolomic changes. The obtained data were discussed in terms of the correlations between the metabolome and posttranslational inactivation of key metabolic enzymes.
In this paper, the researchers studied the role of a protein called IKAROS in the development and function of different types of blood cells. IKAROS is important for the development of all kinds of blood cells, including lymphocytes, erythrocytes, and myeloid cells. Previous studies have shown that IKAROS can influence the expression of genes specific to these different types of blood cells. In this study, the researchers focused on the role of IKAROS in the development of B cells. They found that the expression level of IKAROS changes during B cell development and that these changes are important for the expression of several target genes. IKAROS works with a complex called NuRD to promote transcription, which is the process by which the DNA molecule is used to make a protein. The researchers found that NuRD is important for the development and function of all types of blood cells, including lymphocytes, erythrocytes, and myeloid cells. They also found that NuRD can activate the transcription of specific genes. In this study, the researchers showed that NuRD can activate the transcription of IKAROS-target genes. The researchers also found that IKAROS can interact with a protein called CDK9, which is part of a complex called P-TEFb. P-TEFb is important for the process of transcription elongation, which is the process by which a protein called RNA polymerase II produces a protein from the DNA molecule. The researchers found that IKAROS can recruit P-TEFb to the DNA molecule, which promotes the production of IKAROS-target genes. Finally, the researchers found that IKAROS can interact with a protein called PP1α, which is important for the process of transcription elongation.
Rabies is a fatal disease that has been around since ancient times and is thought to be the inspiration for many myths and superstitions across different cultures. It is a zoonotic disease with a near 100% fatality rate and is considered a neglected disease worldwide. The virus that causes rabies, called rabies virus (RABV), is maintained and transmitted by several mammal species, including bats and carnivores. In the Americas, bat-transmitted RABV is limited to the Americas and is maintained by several distinct bat species-associated lineages. Trinidad is the only Caribbean island with vampire bat-transmitted rabies. Although there have been periodic rabies epizootics in Trinidad's livestock population, there have been no human cases since 1937. A previous study suggested that RABV outbreaks in Trinidad originate from Venezuela, but this conclusion was based on a small sample size and limited analysis. To investigate the evolutionary dynamics of RABV in Trinidad, a Bayesian coalescent approach was used. This study was based on a data set of 183 partial nucleoprotein (N) gene sequences from the Americas, including 37 sequences from equine, caprine, ovine, and bovine rabies cases in Trinidad between 1997 and 2010.
The paper focuses on how patterns of gene expression are established early in the development of the cerebral cortex, a part of the brain responsible for functions like intelligence and language. The authors propose a mathematical model that uses simple yes-or-no questions to describe the behavior of genes and their interactions, rather than continuous values. This model suggests that four genes, Emx2, Pax6, Coup-tfi, and Sp8, play an important role in establishing the pattern of gene expression in the cerebral cortex. The authors simulate the behavior of the genes and show how the different combinations of their interactions result in different patterns of gene expression. The best performing networks include a feedback loop involving Fgf8 and Pax6, and a negative feedback loop involving Coup-tfi and Sp8. The authors suggest that these results could help guide future experimental research on the development of the cerebral cortex.
In a study published in the journal Developmental Cell, researchers have examined the function of the protein Bmi1, which is responsible for adding a ubiquitin molecule to histone H2A. The researchers used a technique called ChIP-seq to analyze the genome-wide distribution of uH2A in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). They found that Bmi1-dependent uH2A is not limited to H3K27me3-containing regions, and is enriched at several other regions of the genome. The researchers also found that uH2A is correlated with DNA methylation in high-density CpG promoters, and that genes containing the highest levels of uH2A are expressed at higher levels when Bmi1 is removed.
Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) are small molecules that do not code for proteins, but have been shown to play an important role in the regulation of the cell. These molecules can be divided into two categories: small/short RNAs (<200 nucleotides) and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). In recent years, there has been an increased focus on lncRNAs, as large-scale analyses have revealed the abundance of these molecules in complex organisms. While there are many different functions of lncRNAs, one recurring feature of them is their association with chromatin-modifying complexes. In particular, many lncRNAs have been shown to interact with PRC2, a complex that recruits other proteins to trimethylate a protein called H3K27, leading to chromatin compaction and transcriptional repression. PRC2 has been shown to play a role in the epigenetic regulation of genes involved in the maintenance of cellular identity and differentiation during tissue development. In the mammary gland, which undergoes different stages of development during pregnancy, lactation, and involution, there is a population of alveolar progenitor cells that remain in the involuted gland and are able to differentiate into milk-producing cells in subsequent pregnancies. The present study shows that the expression of mPINC, a lncRNA that is highly expressed in alveolar cells of the pregnant gland and in MECs that remain in the regressed lobules following involution, declines in the mammary gland during the transition from late pregnancy to early lactation as well as in response to lactogenic hormone-induced differentiation of the HC11 mammary epithelial cell line. Additionally, overexpression of mPINC blocks lactogenic differentiation while knockdown of mPINC enhances lactogenic differentiation of HC11 cells. The present study provides evidence for an interaction between mPINC and RbAp46, as well as other members of PRC2, and identifies potential mPINC targets that are differentially expressed following modulation of mPINC levels. Overall, these data suggest that mPINC inhibits differentiation of alveolar cells and that mPINC downregulation is necessary during lactation to allow alveolar cells to undergo terminal secretory differentiation. Additionally, a PRC2 complex that includes mPINC and RbAp46 may provide the epigenetic modifications that maintain a progenitor population of MECs committed to an alveolar fate in the pregnant and involuted gland.
The human body has different defense mechanisms against viruses. One of these is the "intrinsic immunity," which uses proteins called restriction factors to directly counteract viral replication. There are many restriction factors that target different steps of HIV-1 (Human Immunodeficiency Virus type 1) replication. TRIM5α is one of these restriction factors, and it was first identified in rhesus macaques. TRIM5α is a type of protein called TRIM (tripartite motif) and it is a species-specific barrier to various retroviruses in humans and other primates. However, other TRIM proteins also have the capacity to interfere with HIV-1 replication. For example, TRIM22 interferes with HIV-1 transcription and assembly, TRIM19 interferes with the replication of many unrelated viruses, and PML interferes with the replication of HIV and other viruses.
Protein structure alignment is a computational method used to compare the 3D structures of proteins. Two related problems in protein structure alignment are alignment and discrimination. The alignment problem takes a set of k proteins and superimposes them in 3D space, with the goal of finding a good alignment of all the proteins. The discrimination problem takes two protein structures as input and determines whether or not they can be aligned. The Matt program is a new method for solving both problems. It uses a dynamic programming algorithm to align the proteins and allows for local flexibility in the alignments. Matt is tested on several benchmark datasets and shown to outperform other programs in terms of alignment length and RMSD. It is also shown to be able to distinguish good alignments from bad alignments.
In this study, the authors investigate how cells exit mitosis, the process that occurs between the end of one cell division and the beginning of the next. During mitosis, a large number of proteins are modified by a process called phosphorylation. This modification is controlled by two groups of proteins, mitotic kinases and phosphatases. These two groups work together to regulate which proteins are phosphorylated and when, which ensures that the cell goes through the mitosis process in the correct order.
The current HIV-1 pandemic is caused by different types of viral strains, including subtype A, C, and D, which account for a majority of infections worldwide. These strains differ in their genetic makeup, and this diversity is a result of mutations in the viral gene that encodes the envelope (Env) glycoproteins, gp120 and gp41. To generate potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies (Nab) against HIV-1, the Env protein needs to possess certain properties, such as being exposed on the trimeric form of virion-associated Env, being conserved across different HIV-1 variants, being immunogenic, and lacking autoreactivity. To date, no epitope on the HIV-1 Env has been found that has all of these properties. However, we have identified the autologous Nab response as it first develops in patients infected with different HIV-1 subtypes, and we have reported that there are differences in antigenicity between subtype B and C Envs. In addition, we have shown that both V1V2-dependent and -independent pathways are utilized for escape from Nab during chronic infection, and we have identified specific molecular events that lead to escape. Overall, these studies demonstrate the complexity of HIV-1 neutralization and escape, but also provide insights into how different HIV-1 subtypes evolve to escape the immune system.
Genetic mutations can sometimes lead to changes in the function of a protein or gene. This can have both positive and negative effects on an individual's fitness or ability to survive and reproduce. Understanding how these mutations accumulate in different regions of the genome and how they vary across species is important for understanding the function of the genome and the maintenance of genetic variation. This study looked at coding and non-coding regions of the genome in a plant species called Capsella grandiflora. They found that both positive and negative selection are common in coding regions, but that a large proportion of non-coding DNA may evolve neutrally. They also found that negative selection is stronger in genes that are highly expressed, meaning they are used more by the cell. Overall, this study provides important insights into the factors that shape genetic variation and selection in different regions of the genome.
EBV is a virus associated with various types of cancer in humans, including Burkitt's lymphoma and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. It can immortalize naive B-lymphocytes and establish long-term latent infection in these immortalized cells. EBV expresses different viral gene products depending on the cell or tumor type where latent infection is established. During infection, EBV drives naïve B-cells into a proliferative program and differentiation. EBNA2 is a potent transcriptional co-activator that is expressed in early stages of EBV-induced proliferation of naïve B-cells. However, its expression is extinguished at later stages of B-cell development. EBNA2 is thought to interact with RBP-jκ, a transcription factor, at promoters and enhancers of EBNA2-regulated genes. Recent genome-wide studies have revealed that EBNA2 frequently colocalizes with RBP-jκ, as well as other cellular factor binding sites. Moreover, EBNA2 alters the genome-wide distribution of sequence-specific B-cell master regulatory factors EBF1 and RBP-jκ.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits four types of dengue virus (DENV1-4) and causes a significant number of infections each year, although most of these are mild or asymptomatic. However, there has been an increase in the number of severe cases with shock and hemorrhage in many parts of the world. It has been found that there is a lot of genetic variation in the ability of Ae. aegypti to become infected, propagate, and transmit dengue virus. Environmental factors contribute up to 60% of the variation in vector competence. Previous genetic studies revealed that Ae. aegypti from northeastern Mexico are genetically differentiated from mosquitoes in the Yucatan and Pacific Coast. A barrier to gene flow was also found between Tuxpan and Moloacan/Minatitlan in northern and southern Veracruz, respectively. Therefore, the present study aimed to define this barrier more precisely and characterize the vector competence of mosquitoes in southern Veracruz, Mexico, which has not been previously studied. The study collected mosquitoes from 10 sites between Tuxpan in the north to Minatitlan in the south and analyzed them using a mitochondrial ND4 marker gene and assessing them for vector competence.
The DnaA protein, a key contributor to the initiation of replication in prokaryotes, has been extensively studied for many years. It is not clear, however, whether the protein contributes to the actual regulation of the initiation of replication or works as a cell cycle motor. In E. coli, the DnaA protein causes strand opening and recruits the helicase, and is therefore the key contributor to initiation of replication. The DnaA protein binds to specific binding sites within the origin, with high-affinity boxes bound by DnaA throughout the cell cycle, and low-affinity sites binding only the ATP-bound form. The protein also has a role as a transcription factor regulating its own transcription and the transcription of other genes. Several factors regulate the DnaA protein, including datA and the Hda protein, and RNA polymerase stimulates the hydrolysis of the ATP-bound DnaA. However, despite these various factors, a two-fold elevation in the DnaA concentration does not affect the timing of initiation of replication. Therefore, it argues that the DnaA protein is not the limiting factor for precise timing of initiation of replication.
This paper introduces a novel method for identifying causal relationships between time series. The method, known as partial Granger causality, aims to identify causal relationships in cases where there are latent variables. It is applied to three sets of experimental data: microarray data from a gene network in a human cell, electrophysiological recordings from a sheep performing a task, and electrophysiological recordings from a monkey performing a task. The results show that partial Granger causality is able to identify causal relationships that are not detected by other methods, such as partial directed coherence. The paper provides a detailed explanation of the method and its application to the three data sets, as well as a comparison with other methods. Overall, this paper makes a significant contribution to the field of causal inference in time series data and will be of interest to researchers in Systems Biology, neurophysiology, and related fields.
The article introduces a new method for inferring ancestry at each locus in the genome of individuals with mixed genetic ancestry. The method uses "continent-specific variants" (CSVs) that are variants found only in individuals from one continent. The authors demonstrate that their method achieves comparable accuracy to existing methods in simulations of individuals from three different continents, as well as in real data. They also demonstrate that the iterative updating of CSVs can further improve the accuracy of the method. The article also introduces a method for inferring ancestry at each locus in the genome of individuals with mixed ancestry from two populations from the same continent, using "sub-continental population-specific variants" (sCSVs).
In many organisms, from bacteria to humans, we see regular patterns in behavior and physiology. The most common pattern is a "circadian" rhythm, which means it occurs about every day, and is controlled by light and dark periods. The "molecular clock" that controls this rhythm in animals has been studied extensively. However, the molecular clock is not limited to one part of the brain, but can be found in many parts of the body, possibly controlled by signals from the brain. Researchers have found that studying these regular patterns can help us understand both normal biology and disease. In our study, we used data from microarrays, which measure gene expression, to look for regular patterns in gene activity. However, these microarrays have some limitations, and we had to take many measurements over a short period of time to be able to detect these patterns. Using a new algorithm, we were able to find regular patterns in many more genes than previous methods, which could help us understand how these patterns work in the body.
Meiosis is a process where genetic material combines from two different parents to produce a single zygote or egg and sperm cell. Recombination occurs during meiosis, which is the exchange of genetic material between homologous chromosomes. Recombination is important for genetic diversity and the evolution of sexual reproduction. In budding yeast, the RAD51 protein facilitates the formation of double-strand breaks that initiate recombination events. In plants, the PRDM9 protein recognizes specific sequence motifs and binds to chromatin to initiate recombination. In humans, recombination is influenced by chromatin structure and certain sequence motifs recognized by the PRDM9 protein. Avian species (birds) have high levels of genetic diversity and recombination. The collared flycatcher is a bird species that is widely studied for its recombination patterns. Using whole-genome sequencing data from a pedigree of collared flycatchers, researchers have identified 325 recombination events and 267 non-crossover gene conversion events. They found that recombination events are concentrated in specific regions of the genome and are associated with genes, especially promoter regions and CpG islands. The researchers also found that male recombination rates are higher than female rates and that recombination rates are higher towards the ends of chromosomes. They observed positive interference between recombination events up to a distance of 14 megabases, meaning that the occurrence of one recombination event decreased the likelihood of a second recombination event occurring nearby. The researchers found that the transmission of genetic material at non-crossover events was biased towards genes with GC alleles. Overall, their findings provide insight into the patterns and consequences of recombination in birds.
Repeat proteins are a type of protein that are made up of repeating units that form long, stretched-out structures. These proteins have an energy landscape that can be described as a one-dimensional lattice of units that interact with each other. By studying how these units interact, scientists can better understand how repeat proteins fold. To do this, they use a technique called Ising model, which simplifies the energy landscape to only include interactions between neighboring units. By studying the behavior of the Ising model, scientists can gain insights into the behavior of repeat proteins. One family of repeat proteins that has been studied extensively is the TPR repeat protein family. Scientists have used the Ising model to study the behavior of these proteins and have found that the parameters of the Ising model, such as the energy of the system and the stability of the different conformations, can be determined from the topology of the proteins. By understanding the behavior of the Ising model, scientists can gain insights into how the TPR repeat proteins fold and function.
Liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. In the United States, 90% of liver cancers are a specific type called hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and its prevalence has more than doubled in the past 20 years. Conditions that increase the risk of HCC, such as obesity, alcoholism, and viral hepatitis, can also cause inflammation, fibrosis, and cirrhosis in the liver. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle in cells that plays a key role in many important physiological processes. When the ER is stressed, it can be sensed by a group of signaling pathways called the unfolded protein response (UPR) and the integrated stress response (ISR). These pathways can temporarily slow down protein synthesis and help the ER work more efficiently. Several studies have found that the UPR and ISR may contribute to the development and progression of some cancers, but it is not known whether these pathways play a role in HCC. A protein called CHOP is a key molecule in the UPR and ISR that can induce apoptosis (programmed cell death) in cancer cells, but in some cases, CHOP can also promote cancer development.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is a skin disease that causes disfiguring ulcers on the skin caused by parasites from the Leishmania genus that are transmitted by sandflies. CL can present with a variety of symptoms, and there are different forms of the disease, including localized CL (LCL), diffuse CL (DCL), and mucosal CL (MCL). MCL is the most destructive form, which can result in disfigurement, scarring, and stigma. L aethiopica is one of the species of Leishmania that causes CL and is particularly found in Ethiopia. L aethiopica can cause different forms of CL, including LCL, DCL, and MCL. L aethiopica can be resistant to treatment, and some cases of DCL do not respond to treatment. Ethiopia has the highest burden of CL cases in Africa, with almost 20,000 to 40,000 cases per year. CL in Ethiopia is caused by L aethiopica. It is a zoonotic disease that affects children, adolescents, and young adults.
Scientists have discovered a way to understand more about how our bodies keep track of time. They found that tiny parts of a protein called KaiC, which is made by blue-green algae, can change form over time and that these changes are linked to how long it takes for our bodies to go through certain processes like sleep and metabolism. This protein may be a key part of the biological clock that helps our bodies stay in sync with the environment around us.
The relationship between brain function and neuromodulation, such as arousal, dopaminergic, cholinergic, and noradrenergic systems, is well-established. Interestingly, similar relationships may exist between trial-to-trial fluctuations of brain activity and behavioral performance. However, this relationship is rarely explored in the context of brain-behavior studies. The vast majority of studies investigate a monotonic relationship between trial-averaged brain activity and behavioral performance. To investigate a potential U- or inverted-U relationship, we used electrocorticography (ECoG) recordings from patients undergoing invasive brain monitoring for neurosurgical treatment. Our results showed strong evidence for the existence of such a relationship between trial-to-trial brain activity and behavioral performance in the human brain.
Scientists have studied sexual reproduction in different species and found that many aspects of sexual development show high evolutionary flexibility. The evolution of genes that determine compatible mating partners has been studied in many systems, including plants, animals, algae, and fungi. In animals and plants, genes that determine sexual compatibility are often found on sex chromosomes, which have distinct patterns of inheritance and diversification compared to autosomes. In fungi, genetic systems for determining mating compatibility vary widely, ranging from single genetic loci on autosomes to chromosomes that show suppressed recombination over most of the chromosome, similar to sex chromosomes. Studies in different fungal groups have revealed that transitions towards larger, sex chromosome-like regions have occurred multiple times in fungal evolution, with some systems having evolved only recently. Fungi are excellent model systems to study the evolution of genomic regions involved in mating and mating type determination. Mating compatibility in fungi is governed by mating-type genes, which are located in mating-type (MAT) loci. While some species are bipolar (unifactorial), meaning they harbor only one MAT locus, in others, the ancestral state is considered to be tetrapolar (bifactorial), with two genetically unlinked MAT loci controlling mating-type determination at the haploid stage. However, there are many basidiomycete species with bipolar mating systems that can arise through genomic linkage of the HD and P/R loci or when the P/R locus loses its function in determining mating specificity. A recent study analyzed the genome sequence of Cutaneotrichosporon oleaginosum strain IBC0246 (formerly Trichosporon oleaginosus) from the Trichosporonales order, which is a sister order to the Tremellales within the Tremellomycetes class. Trichosporonales species are widely distributed in the environment and have been isolated from a variety of substrates including soil, decaying plant material, and water. Many species are saprobes, but some have also been found to be associated with animals including humans either as commensals or pathogens. Despite their common occurrence in the environment, Trichosporonales are an understudied fungal group, and sexual reproduction has not yet been observed for any of the known species. Recently, several Trichosporonales were studied with respect to their biotechnological properties, including the oil-accumulating C . oleaginosum, which was first isolated from a dairy plant and has the ability to metabolize chitin-rich and other non-conventional substrates. The sequenced C . oleaginosum strain is haploid and similar in genome size and gene content to strains from the sister order Tremellales; this is also the case for several other Trichosporonales genomes that have since been sequenced. Interestingly, C . oleaginosum showed some similarities to C . neoformans in the organization of MAT loci. This included the presence of several genes with functions during mating in the HD and P/R loci, as well as the presence of only a SXI1 homolog at the HD locus. However, in the draft genome assembly, HD and P/R loci were situated on different scaffolds. Furthermore, a sexual cycle has not yet been described for C . oleaginosum . Thus, it was not possible to conclusively distinguish whether this species carries two unlinked or fused MAT loci, although it seemed more likely that it utilized a tetrapolar mating system as this is present in the majority of species from the sister group of Tremellales. In this study, the sequencing of two additional Trichosporonales genomes for C . oleaginosum ATCC20508 and Vanrija humicola CBS4282 was performed, and the analysis of MAT loci organization in Trichosporonales genomes from 24 different species was conducted. Interestingly, all of the species analyzed have physically linked MAT loci that contain both P/R and HD genes. Furthermore, all the analyzed strains of each species contain only one of the two ancestral HD genes (SXI1 and SXI2), with almost all of the species carrying HD and P/R allele combinations that are different from those found at the MAT loci of pathogenic Cryptococci. The differences in allele combinations as well as the existence of tetrapolar Tremellales sister species to the bipolar Cryptococci suggest that the fusion of the HD and P/R loci as well as the loss of one HD gene per allele occurred independently in the Trichosporonales and the pathogenic Cryptococci. This provides further evidence that convergent evolution leading to physically linked MAT loci is evolutionary beneficial under certain circumstances and has been selected for multiple times in basidiomycetes. However, in contrast to other basidiomycetes, such as the pathogenic Cryptococci and several Microbotryum species, the fused MAT loci of the Trichosporonales have a highly conserved gene content and gene order, suggesting unique mechanisms underlying the evolution of fused MAT loci in these groups.
Chagas disease is a major vector-borne parasitic disease in Latin America, with millions of people infected. Triatomine vectors can occasionally infest domestic habitats, such as T. dimidiata in the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. These infestations are seasonal, and occur during April-July, with predominantly adult triatomines entering homes. Mathematical modeling of T. dimidiata infestation in the Yucatan peninsula shows that dispersal is the dominant parameter in the process, while demography is of secondary importance. Insect screens may be an effective and sustainable alternative to insecticide spraying for controlling non-domiciliated vectors.
Feather formation is a complex process that involves the coordination of two types of cells, epithelial and mesenchymal, in a developing embryo. The process begins with the condensation of mesenchymal cells beneath an epidermal placode, which initiates the formation of a feather primordium. Feather primordia then branch internally and develop into feathers. Feathers are laid out in a hexagonal pattern in a process that is dependent on the interaction of epithelial and mesenchymal cells. The loss of this pattern in the flightless ostrich and emu is due to the failure of this interaction. The EDAR-EDA pathway has been identified as a key signaling pathway in driving the formation of feather primordia.
The Ebola virus disease outbreak in West Africa in 2013-15 was the largest ever filovirus outbreak and the first time the Zaire species of Ebola was found in an urban setting. It is widely believed that Ebola is a zoonotic infection, with bats as the primary reservoir. However, there are still uncertainties about which body fluids are infectious and when they pose a risk. To address these concerns, the World Health Organization released a set of questions and answers about sanitation during the 2013-15 outbreak. However, there was insufficient evidence to give definitive guidance. To properly assess the risks, we conducted a systematic review of the available published evidence on the presence of filoviruses in the body fluids of infected people and survivors.
Researchers have found that neurons' electrical behavior does not follow a single, predictable time scale, but instead multiple time scales that arise from the combination of different active membrane conductances. This behavior can result in a phenomenon called power-law dynamics, where a neuron's membrane voltage cannot be described by a single time constant. To study this behavior, a new mathematical framework is needed, and the researchers have developed a model called the fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model. This model uses a fractional derivative to represent a non-local process in which the value of the neuron's membrane voltage is determined by integrating a weighted voltage trace from the past. The researchers have shown that their model can reproduce various experimental findings in neurons, such as upward and downward spike-frequency adaptation, long first-spike latency, and spikes with long first-spike latency and high inter-spike variability with power-law distribution. They have also analyzed the model's spiking activity in response to noisy and oscillatory input. Overall, the fractional integrate-and-fire model provides a better representation of a neuron's electrical behavior than the traditional integrate-and-fire model.
The paper is about the role of antioxidants in protecting fungi from damage caused by oxygen and other chemicals. This is important because fungi need to protect themselves from the damaging effects of oxygen in order to survive. The paper focuses on a group of fungi called thermally dimorphic fungi, which can change their shape depending on the temperature. The paper looks at how antioxidants help these fungi to cope with the different shapes and temperatures they experience in the wild. The paper also looks at how antioxidants help fungi to survive in the body of a host organism. The paper uses a special kind of genetic material called antisense RNA to study how antioxidants work in different situations. Overall, the paper is important because it helps us to understand how fungi survive and adapt to different environments.
We analyzed data from the IntAct database, which contains information about interactions between proteins from different organisms. This database includes interactions detected using different methods from a variety of sources. The data in the database is not complete for complex interactions with more than two components, so we only analyzed interactions between two proteins. We divided the data into three groups based on the phylogenetic subgroups of the organisms involved: bacterial (mostly E. coli), unicellular eukaryotic (mostly yeast), and metazoa (including animal and worm proteins). The data in the database was collected up to December 6, 2006, and included 729 interactions between bacterial proteins, 7615 interactions between unicellular eukaryotic proteins, and 35,435 interactions between metazoa proteins. Most of the metazoa interactions were between Drosophila melanogaster proteins (more than 24,000), followed by human proteins (more than 4,000) and C. elegans proteins (more than 4,000).
The development of tissues and organs is controlled by signaling pathways that work differently depending on the context. For example, the Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signaling pathway controls cell viability and motility during dorsal closure, but it also regulates growth and patterning during imaginal disc development. The imaginal disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during larval development and differentiates into the wing and half of the thorax during pupal development. As the epithelium grows, different genetic identities develop in different parts of the wing. Several signaling pathways play a key role during this process, including the Dpp signaling pathway, which specifies the central region of the wing blade and controls its growth and patterning. Several targets and additional components of the transcriptional regulation events triggered by Dpp signaling have been identified in Drosophila, including the T-box containing protein Bifid, the Zn-fingers transcription factors Spalt major (Salm) and Spalt related (Salr), and two human Sall genes related to genetic diseases. Salm and Salr act as transcriptional repressors in Drosophila cultured cells, and their activity depends on the histone deacetylase complex NuRD. The spalt genes play a central role in mediating the effects of Dpp signaling during wing disc development, but the identity of their target genes is unknown. Here, we describe the global transcriptional changes that occur in salm/salr knockdown discs, identify candidate genes that are regulated by Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc, and discuss the complexity of the transcriptional regulation events downstream of Spalt.
In this article, the authors describe the role of a set of proteins that regulate the number of centrioles, which are important for the organization of spindle fibers during cell division. The authors explain that when the number of centrioles is not regulated properly, it can lead to problems with chromosome segregation and the development of cancer cells. They also describe how a protein called PP1 regulates the levels of one of these centriole duplication factors, Plk4, through a process involving degradation. The authors propose that regulating the stability of Plk4 is an important part of controlling the number of centrioles and preventing problems with cell division.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a disease that has been reemerging in various parts of the world for the past 35 years. It is caused by a parasite called Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum and spread by sand flies. In the Americas, L. (L.) infantum mainly affects dogs and humans, with the dog being considered the main reservoir in urban areas. However, there is a possibility that other non-human hosts may be involved in the maintenance of the parasite in certain environments. In Brazil, from the late 1980s onward, VL has occurred in urban environments, with rapid expansion of transmission foci in hundreds of municipalities, including populous urban centers and several capitals. The rural epidemiological pattern has been modified by increasing urbanization, while the geographic expansion of the disease has been observed in previously safe municipalities. In the state of São Paulo, from 1997 to 2014, there were 2,467 autochthonous human cases, 214 deaths, and a mortality rate of 8.7%. There are three different transmission patterns and epidemiological profiles of the disease in the state of São Paulo: one involving both human and canine cases, one involving only canine cases, and one involving only human cases. Little is known about the environmental and epidemiological determinants of the disease, or the dispersion and behavior of vectors and hosts potentially involved in the different VL transmission cycles. The initial VL focus in Campinas was identified in 2009, based on an autochthonous canine case reported in an environmentally protected area (EPA) within the municipality. This area has undergone intense environmental changes since the 1970s, with deforestation for road and residential condominiums construction. In order to identify the different components involved in the transmission cycle of this CVL focus in Campinas, we conducted a broad epidemiological investigation involving the capture of sand flies and free-living wild animals in other areas of the EPA and integrated this research with the results of canine serological surveys.
The article describes the role of a specific type of virus, called the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), in human cancer. The authors state that EBV has been found to cause several different types of human cancer, including Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, gastric cancer, and extra-nodal nasal natural killer/T cell lymphoma. The authors also mention that some proteins produced by the EBV genome have been shown to have "transforming activity," meaning that they can help cancer cells grow and survive. Additionally, the article discusses a type of RNA called microRNA (miRNA), which is produced by the EBV genome and can affect cellular processes. The article provides information about the different types of EBV-encoded miRNAs, their expression patterns in different types of infections, and some of the proteins and genes that they target. The authors also describe some of the specific effects that EBV-encoded miRNAs can have on cells, such as enhancing cell migration and invasiveness. The article concludes that some EBV-encoded miRNAs can promote human cancer by causing cells to adopt a more invasive, mesenchymal-like phenotype.
The current sashimi representation for splicing events has limitations that restrict its use, but our implementation solves these issues by eliminating the need for specialized annotation formats, supporting summarized views for large numbers of samples, and being easily integrated into any splicing analysis pipeline. Additionally, our implementation is freely available at github.com/guigolab/ggsashimi. Further extensions of ggsashimi include incorporating spread metrics, allowing the user to select which type of reads to plot, and showing only aggregated coverage.
Researchers have found that the cis-regulatory module (CRM), a type of DNA sequence that controls the spatial-temporal expression of genes, is composed of transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs). These TFBSs are responsible for reading the expression levels of transcription factors and driving the appropriate expression pattern. Cross-species comparison is important for computational prediction, discovery of novel sequence motifs, and exploration of the principles of regulatory sequence evolution. However, many current methods for regulatory sequence comparison have limitations, such as errors in alignment, heuristic nature, and the assumption that TFBSs are always conserved. To address these problems, our study proposes a new evolutionary model of CRM sequences. Our model uses a pair-HMM to capture the uncertainty of alignment and TFBS annotation, making it possible to predict CRMs in a single, integrative framework. We also developed an efficient inference machinery and applied it to Drosophila melanogaster. We used genome-wide binding data for key transcription factors involved in blastoderm-stage gene regulation to test two important hypotheses. First, we found that non-functional binding sites in genome-wide transcription factor binding studies are likely functional. Second, we found no support for the hypothesis that CRMs near the transcription start site are likely "control modules" while those distal ones are "booster modules."
Drosophila piRNAs are small RNAs that help maintain the health of the genome during egg development. Mutations in the genes that make piRNAs cause problems with egg development, and they can also affect how genes are controlled. Some piRNAs are derived from repeating units of DNA, while others are not. The full range of functions of piRNAs is not yet clear. Some mutations in piRNA pathway genes cause defects in how the egg is arranged along its axes. These defects can be fixed by a mutation in a gene that helps detect damage to DNA. This suggests that the defects in egg development are caused by damage to the DNA. However, some piRNA mutations cause defects in egg development that are independent of DNA damage and the gene that helps detect DNA damage. These defects are thought to be caused by problems with a complex that protects the ends of the chromosomes, called the telomere protection complex. This complex is made up of a specific group of piRNAs that are 19-22 nucleotides long. These findings suggest that piRNAs have an important role in protecting the chromosomes in eggs.
The family Filoviridae has two genera, Marburgvirus and Ebolavirus. The genus Ebolavirus has four species: Zaire, Sudan, Reston, and Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) ebolaviruses. The Reston and Côte d'Ivoire ebolaviruses have not been associated with major outbreaks in Africa, while the Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses have been associated with large outbreaks with high fatality rates. These viruses have genomes that are at least 30–40% divergent from each other. The natural reservoir of ebolaviruses is elusive, but recent data suggests that three species of arboreal fruit bats may be carriers of Zaire ebolavirus. No data has been published to suggest reservoirs for the Sudan, Reston, and Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus species. However, a cave-dwelling fruit bat has been implicated as a natural host for marburgvirus. Filovirus outbreaks are sporadic, sometimes interspersed by years or even decades of no apparent disease activity. The last new species of ebolavirus was discovered 14 years ago in Côte d'Ivoire, involving a single non-fatal case. No further disease reports have been associated with Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus in contrast to Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses, which have each caused multiple large outbreaks over the same time period. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a new ebolavirus that was responsible for a large hemorrhagic fever outbreak in western Uganda. This new virus, proposed name Bundibugyo ebolavirus, is most closely related, albeit distantly, to Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus, which was somewhat unexpected given the large geographic distance between the two countries of origin.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has a variable progression, and some people with AD take longer to deteriorate than others. The Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) and Functional Assessment Staging procedure (FAST) are commonly used tools to assess the progression of AD. These tools help professionals chart the decline of people with AD, and there are several stages and substages in each tool. Some studies have quantified the average time spent in each stage, but it is not clear how much variability is there in the progression of AD. This paper aims to study the variability in the progression of AD and determine how well the average values of GDS and FAST stages reflect the course of the disease in individual patients.
The article discusses the idea that new neurons are constantly being produced in the brain, a process called neurogenesis. These new neurons are added to the existing network of neurons in a region of the brain called the dentate gyrus. The article suggests that this process of adding new neurons can be beneficial for memory. The article also compares different ways in which the brain can adapt to changes in its environment and explains why adding new neurons is a better way than other methods. The article also mentions a type of neuron called a place cell, which is important for navigation. The article uses a computer model to show how adding new neurons can help the brain to remember information better. The article suggests that the process of adding new neurons can help the brain to remember new information and adapt to changes in the environment.
In trypanosomes, a type of extracellular parasitic protozoa, the mitochondria and lysosomes are the main sources of cell damage from oxidants. Trypanosomes have a unique peroxidase, GPx4, that helps remove these oxidants. The lysosome also contains iron, which can catalyze the oxidation of lipids. When the lysosome ruptures, the cell is irreversibly committed to death. Trypanosomes have a high rate of endocytosis, which allows them to take in nutrients from their host. The lysosome is the final destination for the uptake of host Hb and iron. Trypanosomes are heme auxotroph, meaning they need to get heme from their host. Trypanosomes lack catalase and other antioxidant enzymes, but they have peroxidases that can help detoxify oxidants. RNA interference studies show that these peroxidases are essential for parasite survival. Trolox, a vitamin E analogue, can fully restore the growth of peroxidase-deficient parasites. By knocking out the mitochondrial peroxidase, the parasites had only a minor growth retardation. However, when the cytosolic peroxidases were knocked out, the parasites died within two hours after being transferred into Trolox-free medium. The mechanism of cell death was lysosomal disintegration, followed by damage to the mitochondrion and other cellular membranes, and total cell lysis. The process was closely linked to the endocytic uptake of iron ions. These findings reveal a previously unknown role for cytosolic peroxidases in protecting the terminal lysosome.
This article is about a protein called Premelanosome Protein (PMEL) that is important for the production of eumelanin, a type of pigment found in animals' hair, feathers, skin, and eyes. PMEL is a protein that is found in pigment cells and is responsible for the early stages of melanosome biogenesis, which is the process by which pigment-producing cells make pigment. A mutation in the gene that encodes PMEL causes a defect in eumelanin production, which results in a graying or silvering of the fur in mice and horses. In addition, a mutation in this gene has been linked to coat color changes in several other species, including chickens, fish, and dogs. The article also describes how PMEL has a structure similar to amyloid, which is a type of protein that forms into fibrils in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Dengue fever is a common disease caused by a virus spread by mosquitoes. There are 390 million infections and 96 million cases of dengue fever every year [1]. However, there is no cure for dengue fever, so the most effective way to control it is by reducing the number of mosquitoes. Controlling mosquitoes can be difficult because they like to breed in clean water in a variety of places, including artificial containers like buckets and old tires. To control mosquitoes, people have tried different methods, such as using insecticides, cleaning up garbage, and draining water from containers. However, it is not clear which methods are the most effective. This study aims to review and analyze the effectiveness of different methods for controlling mosquitoes that involve changing the environment. Specifically, the study looked at the use of container covers with or without insecticides, waste management and clean-up campaigns, and the elimination of breeding sites by making them unusable or eliminating them. The study found that all of these methods were effective in reducing the number of mosquitoes, but the most effective method was waste management and clean-up campaigns.
This article discusses how a new type of drug called a translational inhibitor works to treat diseases. Translational inhibitors block the process of translation, which is the process by which proteins are made from their genetic information. These drugs are used to treat many different diseases, such as metabolic disease, cancer, and dementia. The article describes how some proteins are "undruggable" and cannot be targeted by drugs. To solve this problem, the article suggests targeting the step of translation. However, targeting translation in a specific way is difficult. The article discusses the different ways that translational inhibitors work to block translation, and how these mechanisms lead to substantial inhibition of translation. The article also describes the challenges of using antibiotics to target the bacterial ribosome, which are not specific and are too toxic for use in humans. The article introduces a new class of compounds that selectively targets the translation of PCSK9, which has few off-target effects. These compounds bind in the ribosome exit tunnel, and seem to affect the trajectory of the growing nascent polypeptide chain in the exit tunnel as it is extended, thereby selectively stalling translation of a narrow spectrum of transcripts. The article discusses the importance of understanding the molecular basis for how these compounds selectively stall translation, and how cells respond and adapt to compound-induced translational stalling. The article describes how genomic screens can be used to identify genetic modifiers of the action of small molecule inhibitors, and to assess possible targets for combination therapy. The article uses CRISPR interference screens to identify proteins involved in the inhibitor's mechanism of action, and to identify components of genetically related pathways and how these are influenced by drug treatment. The article also compares the genes identified in the PF8503 CRISPRi screen with those identified using the non-selective translation inhibitor HHT, in order to reveal the pathways likely to be general cellular responses to the stress induced by translation inhibition.
The article discusses the role of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) in causing Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), a cancer found in elderly men of Mediterranean or African descent. KSHV promotes the global degradation of cellular messenger RNA (mRNA), a process called host shutoff. The article describes how KSHV causes host shutoff by targeting mRNA polyadenylation, a step in the process of producing export-competent mRNA. The article also explains how KSHV does this without having any intrinsic ribonuclease (RNase) activity and by using both nuclear and cytoplasmic poly ( A ) binding proteins (PABPN and PABPC, respectively). The article suggests that KSHV may be using a novel polyadenylation-dependent mechanism of host shutoff, and that polyadenylation may play a role in RNA degradation in higher eukaryotes.
Infection with bacteria can cause serious illness in the lungs, such as ventilator-associated pneumonia. The interferon (IFN) family of proteins can help fight these infections. However, different subtypes of IFNs can have different effects on the host depending on the specific pathogen. In this study, researchers looked at how IFN type III (IFNλ) affects bacterial infection in the lungs. They found that IFNλ is induced in response to bacterial infection and can decrease the production of microRNA (miRNA) miR-21, which helps to fight the infection. They also found that mice lacking the IFNλ receptor or the protein PDCD4 had better outcomes in fighting off the infection and less lung damage. Overall, this study suggests that IFNλ may play an important role in fighting off bacterial infection in the lungs.
Sleeping sickness, or HAT, is a disease that affects the central and peripheral nervous systems and can cause coma, seizures, and death if not treated. There are different forms of HAT, and the gambiense form can have a wide range of symptoms that can last several years. The WHO plans to eliminate HAT in the near future, but it is important to have a standardized tool to assess the clinical presentation of patients in order to better understand the disease and compare results from different studies. This paper evaluates the impact of pre-treatment clinical status and select biological factors on mortality rate in HAT patients.
Social interactions are important for many species, including humans, and can impact gene expression, behavior and metabolism. Researchers have used social network analysis to understand social relationships in groups of individuals, but this approach has limitations. A new pipeline has been developed to track and analyze large groups of male flies, including a machine learning-based method for classifying social interactions, and a novel algorithm for computing an average social network. The pipeline was used to study the effects of isolation on social network dynamics, gene expression and animal physiology. The results showed strong and specific effects of isolation.
The article describes a study that aimed to improve the management of diarrheal diseases in resource-limited settings, such as those found in Bangladesh, where the disease is a major cause of death for children under 5 years old. The study used a smartphone platform, called a Rehydration Calculator, to provide healthcare providers with information and guidelines on how to treat children with diarrheal diseases. The calculator includes features such as weight-for-age estimation, a dehydration assessment guide, and treatment recommendations. The study evaluated the Rehydration Calculator by using it in two hospitals in Bangladesh and comparing the results with the standard of care. The results showed that the Rehydration Calculator improved the management of diarrheal diseases in resource-limited settings by making it easier for healthcare providers to follow guidelines and provide effective treatment to children.
The authors discuss how climate change affects the spread and severity of infectious diseases in humans, animals, and plants. They note that the effects of climate change on disease dynamics are difficult to predict because both hosts and parasites can be affected differently by temperature changes. The authors argue that the thermal dependencies of basic host and parasite traits can be described using the metabolic theory of ecology (MTE). MTE suggests that the metabolic rate and related processes of organisms can be predicted based on temperature. The authors tested this theory using experimental data on the interactions between a host (Daphnia magna) and its parasite (Ordospora colligata). They found that the thermal dependencies of host and parasite traits affecting within-host parasite dynamics and host survival are well described by variants of the Van’t Hoff–Arrhenius and Sharpe–Schoolfield models. The authors argue that this framework provides a valuable approach for predicting the outcomes and consequences of infections for hosts and parasites in light of climate change.
GABAergic interneurons are essential for maintaining normal brain activity, but there are many different types of interneurons with unique characteristics. These interneurons are organized into different subnetworks, and each subnetwork has a distinct connectivity motif. Parvalbumin-expressing (PV) interneurons mainly inhibit the perisomatic and basal dendrites of excitatory pyramidal cells (PCs), while somatostatin-expressing (SOM) interneurons mainly target the apical dendrites of PCs. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) interneurons mainly connect to SOM neurons and provide a disinhibitory circuit for the distal dendrite of PCs. These different interneuron types also differ in their intrinsic and synaptic properties. In this study, the authors hypothesize that the SOM-PV motif plays a key role in the redistribution of somatic and dendritic inhibition. To test this hypothesis, they perform mathematical analyses and extensive simulations of a microcircuit consisting of PV, SOM, and VIP neurons and excitatory PCs. The authors show that mutual inhibition between VIP and SOM neurons leads to an amplification of weak signals targeting VIP neurons. They also reveal how the connectivity, neuronal and synaptic properties of these interneurons underpin the amplification abilities of the microcircuit. The authors show that the circuit can display slow oscillations ranging from Delta to Alpha bands as a consequence of spike-frequency adaptation and strong mutual inhibition in SOM and VIP neurons. Functionally, strong mutual inhibition between SOM and VIP neurons enables a switch between two distinct processing modes in which top-down inputs arriving at the apical dendrites of PCs are either integrated or obliterated via VIP cell modulation. The transition between these operating modes can be triggered by either weak and persistent input or strong and transient pulses.
The intestinal flora of the gut plays an important role in human health. New research methods have revealed that each disease is associated with a distinct state of intestinal dysbiosis. However, these research methods have produced conflicting results and identified a large number of associations. Some of these associations may be spurious because they do not take into account the pervasive nature of microbial interactions in the gut microbiota. A new method called Direct Association Analysis (DAA) has been developed that can distinguish direct associations between particular members of the microbiome and diseases from indirect associations caused by interspecific interactions. DAA was applied to the largest study on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and found that many previously reported associations could be explained by interspecific interactions rather than the disease itself. The direct associations identified by DAA include Roseburia, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Blautia producta, Turicibacter, Oscillospira, Eubacterium dolichum, Aggregatibacter segnis, and Sutterella. Some of these associations have been studied in detail in IBD, while others have received little attention. The phenotypes of the taxa directly linked to disease suggest that immunomodulation, butyrate production, and brain-gut interactions play an important role in the etiology of IBD. Compared to traditional methods, DAA has the potential to identify taxa most informative of the diagnosis and can discriminate between healthy and diseased individuals with the same potential as almost a hundred associations detected by conventional methods.
Wolbachia is a type of bacteria that naturally lives in certain mosquitoes and has the potential to be used as a natural control method for mosquito-borne diseases like dengue, yellow fever, and malaria. Researchers have studied how Wolbachia affects these diseases in different mosquitoes and have found that it effectively reduces replication and transmission of dengue virus when introduced as a stable infection in the Aedes aegypti mosquito. However, not all mosquitoes can be successfully transinfected with Wolbachia, and researchers are trying to understand why. To do this, they compare the replication and transmission of dengue virus in mosquitoes that are naturally infected with Wolbachia and those that have Wolbachia introduced to them through a transient infection. They also compare the replication and transmission of yellow fever virus in mosquitoes that are naturally infected with Wolbachia and those that have Wolbachia introduced to them through a transient infection. Researchers have also studied how Wolbachia affects the malaria parasite in mosquitoes and have found that it enhances replication of the malaria parasite in the Aedes fluviatilis mosquito. Overall, these studies show that Wolbachia does not enhance replication or transmission of dengue, yellow fever, or malaria in mosquitoes and that it has potential as a natural control method for these diseases.
Cilia are tiny hair-like organelles found on the surface of most cells. They sense and respond to the environment. The cilia have a supporting structure called the axoneme and a transport system called intraflagellar transport (IFT) that moves cargo from the cell body into the cilia. The cilia can be divided into different parts, including the basal body, transition zone, and shaft. The basal body anchors the cilium to the cell and the transition zone attaches the cilium to the membrane. The cilia shaft is the longest part of the cilium and is divided into the proximal and distal ends. The proximal end is called the inversin compartment (InvC). The InvC is a region near the transition zone that is important for signaling, cilia placement, and ciliogenesis. It is composed of several proteins, including inversin, nek8, nek11, and unc119b. The exact function and regulation of the InvC is still not completely understood, but recent studies have shed light on its role in cilia biology.
Myelin is a thin layer of fat that wraps around nerve cells. It helps nerve signals to travel faster. Myelin is made by special cells called oligodendrocytes. There are diseases called demyelinating diseases that cause myelin to break down, and this can lead to weakness, tingling, and loss of function. In some cases, the body can replace the lost myelin by using cells called oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). However, the OPCs often fail to properly wrap the nerve cells, leading to a loss of function. The reasons for this failure are not well understood, but it might have something to do with the way the OPCs wrap the nerve cells or their inability to migrate to the right location. The protein complex called Scribble has been shown to be important for wrapping nerve cells in other parts of the body, so it is possible that it is also important for OPCs to wrap nerve cells in the brain or spine. This study tested this hypothesis by examining the expression and function of Scribble in the different stages of myelination and remyelination.
Bacteriocins are antibacterial peptides produced by bacteria that have been studied for their potential use in medicine and food. However, there are two examples of bacteriocin-like peptides that are produced by bacterial pathogens, are cytotoxic and contribute to the virulence of these pathogens. One of these peptides, Streptolysin S (SLS), is produced by Group A Streptococcus and is responsible for the associated characteristic β-haemolytic activity. SLS is a modified peptide that has a unique structure and undergoes post-translational modifications that result in the formation of thiazole and oxazole residues. These modifications are carried out by a number of enzymes that are typically associated with bacteriocin biosynthesis or immunity. While it was thought for some time that SLS-like virulence factors are exclusively associated with streptococci, in silico analysis has revealed that gene clusters potentially encoding SLS-like factors are also present in other Gram-positive pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, and Clostridium botulinum. A specific focus on the L. monocytogenes cluster has revealed that it encodes an inducible cytotoxic and haemolytic peptide, Listeriolysin S, that plays a role in the survival of the pathogen in PMNs and contributes to its virulence in the mouse model. However, the Listeriolysin S-associated cluster is strain variable and is present in a subset of isolates from lineage I, the evolutionary lineage associated with the majority of epidemics associated with this often fatal pathogen.
Mycetoma is a common and neglected disease that affects many people in tropical and subtropical areas. It is an inflammatory disease caused by bacteria or fungi and spreads to involve the skin and deep structures. It usually affects young adults and children, causes massive deformities, and has many negative impacts on patients, families, and communities. Fifty-six different microorganisms can cause mycetoma, with the most common being the fungus Madurella mycetomatis and the bacteria Streptomyces somaliensis, Actinomadura madurae, and Actinomadura pelletieri. In this study, the authors studied the expression of IL-17A, a cytokine that plays an important role in inflammation, in mycetoma granulomas caused by M. mycetomatis, S. somaliensis, and A. pelletieri. They used an immunohistochemical approach and correlated the expression levels with the clinical characteristics of the patients. The results of the study showed that IL-17A was expressed in all zones surrounding the grains of M. mycetomatis, S. somaliensis, and A. pelletieri, and that the number of CD8+ lymphocytes and macrophages was higher in actinomycetoma lesions than in eumycetoma lesions. The authors concluded that IL-17A plays an important role in the mycetoma granuloma formation, and that there is a correlation between IL-17A expression and the clinical characteristics of the patients.
Scientists are interested in understanding how proteins interact with each other and what happens when these interactions go wrong. Some proteins work best when they are folded into a specific shape, but other proteins, called intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs), don't need to be folded to work properly. IDPs can interact with other proteins in a special way called "fuzziness," where the IDP doesn't need to fold into a specific shape to bind to its target. The researchers in this study focus on a specific IDP called Ewing's Sarcoma-activation domain (EAD) that is part of a group of oncoproteins that can cause cancer. They use computer simulations to study how EAD might interact with other proteins, and they find that the attraction between the aromatic residues in EAD and the basic residues in the other protein is an important factor in the interaction.
This study is about a protein called Lon, which is found in Lyme disease-causing bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. The protein is important for the survival of the bacteria in different environments. In particular, Lon is involved in the migration of the bacteria from ticks to mammals. The authors found that a version of Lon called Lon-1 is especially important for this migration. They also found that Lon-1 is different from another version of Lon called Lon-2. The authors used a number of different techniques to study Lon-1 and Lon-2, including comparing them with similar proteins from other organisms, examining their genetic sequences, and measuring their activity in different conditions. Overall, the authors showed that Lon-1 is an important protein that plays a special role in the migration of B. burgdorferi from ticks to mammals.
This study looked at how our immune system's Fcγ receptors (FcγRs) can help protect us from lentivirus infections like HIV. There have been studies that suggest that antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) is important for this protection. However, there is not enough direct evidence to support this claim. One way that antibodies can help fight off viruses is through a process called antibody-dependent phagocytosis (ADP). This is when antibody-opsonized virions or cells carrying viral antigens are internalized via FcγRs into phagocytic cells like monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, or dendritic cells. Another related process called trogocytosis occurs when membrane components from one cell are transferred to another, which can happen in an FcγR-dependent way. While this process might lead to infection of the phagocyte, internalization of infected cells or virions into phagolysosomes would likely deactivate the virus. Phagocytosis or trogocytosis could be an effective way for antibodies to help clear infectious material. In fact, in vivo studies have shown that phagocytosis plays a key role in antibody-mediated protection against some viral pathogens. However, internalization of antibody-opsonized dengue virus through FcγRs enhances infection of phagocytes in humans, and the role of phagocytosis in preventing or enhancing HIV infection remains unknown. In this study, the authors wanted to establish a biologically relevant assay to investigate correlates of protection during vaccine trials. They found little or no ADP of virions, even when opsonized with broadly neutralizing antibodies. They also found that HIV-1 virions have a paucity of envelope spikes on their surface, which results in a level or orientation of bound antibody that is likely inadequate for FcγR crosslinking. On the other hand, CD4 lymphocytes adsorbed with HIV-1 virions are a target for phagocytosis or trogocytosis.
Hookworm is a type of intestinal parasite that is transmitted through the soil and affects both children and adults. It is a major health problem in low- and middle-income countries, causing iron-deficiency anemia, malnutrition, and other chronic health problems. Despite the use of mass drug administration programs to control hookworm, it is not having a significant impact on its prevalence. Therefore, we have developed a computational simulation model to better understand the economic and health burden of hookworm worldwide and in different countries. This will help decision-makers to determine how much time, energy, and resources to invest in hookworm control.
This research paper explains that hypoxia, a condition in which there is not enough oxygen in the brain, can cause problems with brain development in premature infants. These problems can include mental retardation, attention-deficit disorder, autism, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, and psychiatric disorders. The study looked at how hypoxia affects the development of brain connections, called connectivity, in zebrafish. The study found that hypoxia disrupts axon pathfinding, which is the way that axons (the wires that connect different parts of the brain) grow to the right places in the brain. This disruption is caused by a protein called ephrinB2, which is activated by hypoxia. The study also looked at how a chemical called magnesium sulfate can help reduce the effects of hypoxia by lowering the amount of ephrinB2.
Human paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a fungal infection that can affect different parts of the body, especially the lungs and adrenal glands. It can take a chronic course and can be caused by a type of fungus called Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. We have developed a mouse model of PCM by injecting conidia (spores) of P. brasiliensis into the lungs of male BALB/c mice. This model has allowed us to study the responses of lung tissue during active and residual stages of the disease. However, we have not yet described how PCM lesions in the lungs can be evaluated using radiological imaging. Non-invasive imaging methods, such as X-rays and CT scans, can provide information on the distribution and progression of lesions in the lungs over time. Recent advances in technology have made it possible to produce high-resolution CT scans, which show individual pixels in the image and can map the density of the tissue being imaged. However, these scans can also deliver high levels of radiation to the animal, potentially affecting growth or other health outcomes. While some studies have used CT scanners designed for human imaging to study mice, few studies have specifically described CT imaging in experimental PCM models. By comparing CT scans with histopathological evaluations, we can understand how PCM lesions appear in the lungs and how they progress over time in the same animal. This can help us better understand the disease and potentially identify new ways to monitor and treat it.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala-azar, is a severe and potentially fatal disease. The main symptoms are an enlarged spleen and irregular fever. Approximately 500,000 new cases of VL occur annually worldwide, with the majority of cases occurring in India, Bangladesh, Brazil, Sudan, and Nepal. There are many people who are infected with leishmaniasis but do not develop the disease, making it difficult to determine the true number of cases. Currently, there is no way to determine the length of time for which leishmanial DNA remains positive in asymptomatically infected individuals. Therefore, it is not clear whether or not they should be treated. To track the success of the VL elimination initiative, it is important to document the number of incident infections over the next few years. Typically, serological methods such as the direct agglutination test (DAT), k39 ELISA, or leishmanin skin testing (LST) are used to document incident infection. However, it is not clear whether or not these tests accurately measure infection. LST is a test that measures cell-mediated immunity and remains positive for many years after the initial infection. However, the leishmanin antigen used in this test is not well standardized and there is variability in sensitivity and specificity from one antigen to another. A previous study found that the sensitivity of LST to detect cell-mediated immunity in cured VL patients was low in India. Reading the LST after 48 hours doesn't make it a very practical test for field use. However, tests that measure the cellular immune response hold promise. A test called IFN-γ release assay (IFN-γRA) detects IFN-γ in whole blood stimulated with antigens from Mycobacterium tuberculosis. This assay has a very good sensitivity and specificity. A similar assay based on leishmaniasis antigen (s) might also be valuable for detecting leishmaniasis infection. In a recent study in Turkey, a modified QuantiFERON assay was used to detect the cell-mediated immune response against Leishmania infantum. We developed a new IFN-γRA based on the QuantiFERON test system and evaluated its potential to detect Leishmania donovani infection.
Bacterial pathogens can sometimes cause infections that persist for a long time, without any symptoms or noticeable signs. This is called a persistent infection. Some of these persistent infections can lead to complications, such as autoimmune disorders or reactivation with severe symptoms. In the study, the researchers are investigating why some people get a persistent infection with Yersinia, a type of bacteria that can cause gastrointestinal problems and autoimmune diseases. They found that Yersinia can colonize the cecum, which is a part of the large intestine, and shed the bacteria in the feces. This could make it easier for the bacteria to spread to other parts of the body. The researchers also found that some Yersinia genes were turned off and some were turned on during the persistent infection stage. These changes could help the bacteria survive longer in the cecum and make it harder for the immune system to clear the infection. The researchers also looked at a mutant version of Yersinia that didn't produce a protein called CNFY. They found that this mutant Yersinia was able to survive longer and had some other changes in the way it behaved. Overall, the study suggests that the bacteria's ability to evade the immune system and persist in the body for a long time depends on changes in their genetic expression.
Plant pathogen fungi have a way of infecting plants by using a special type of hyphae called biotrophic infectious hyphae (IH). These hyphae are important for the fungi to infect and grow in the plant. During this infectious stage, the fungi and plant interact with each other in a way that determines how sick the plant will become. Researchers have been trying to figure out what genes the fungi use to infect plants during this early infectious stage. They found a gene called DES1 that is important for the fungi to infect plants. DES1 helps the fungi to stop plant defenses by restraining an important part of plant defense called oxidative signaling. Without DES1, the fungi cannot infect plants and the plants show strong defense responses.
Schistosomiasis is a type of parasitic disease that affects humans and animals and can be found in many parts of the world, especially in Africa. It is caused by a type of flatworm called a trematode. It is spread through fresh water snails that live in rivers, lakes, and ponds. In Ghana, which is located in West Africa, the most common type of schistosomiasis is caused by a parasite called Schistosoma haematobium. Scientists have developed a model that can predict the prevalence of schistosomiasis in Ghana. They used data from surveys that were conducted in 2008 and 2010 to compare the model's predictions with the actual prevalence of the disease. They also assessed the practical implications of using the model or actual survey data to determine the appropriate treatment strategy for schistosomiasis in Ghana over the next six years.
Fertilization, the process in which a sperm cell meets an egg, is vital for the survival of many animal species. The sperm cell, a small mobile cell, has a simple job of finding an egg and fertilizing it with its own genetic material. To do this, it needs to be able to move and find the egg. In order to do this, it seems that the egg may be releasing some chemical signals, called prostaglandins, which guide the sperm towards it. Scientists have recently discovered that these prostaglandins are very important for sperm guidance, and that certain mutations in the genes responsible for producing them can cause problems with fertilization. By understanding the role that prostaglandins play in fertilization, researchers may be able to develop new treatments for infertility.
Therapeutic proteins are an important part of the pharmaceuticals market, but they have limitations and can cause immune reactions in patients. These immune reactions can be prevented by using T cell epitope deletion. This involves identifying the parts of the protein that can trigger an immune response and then mutating them to make them less immunogenic. There are computer programs that can help identify these parts of the protein, and they are often used in combination with laboratory tests to identify and delete immunogenic parts of the protein. The use of these tools has led to the deimmunization of several proteins. However, the process is time-consuming and expensive, and there are other, simpler ways to deimmunize proteins. These methods use computer programs to help identify and delete immunogenic parts of the protein, and they are more efficient and less expensive than laboratory tests. These methods have been used to deimmunize a protein called Enterobacter cloacae P99 Beta-lactamase.
Meiosis is a special type of cell division that produces haploid gametes from diploid progenitor cells. A key feature of meiosis is the exchange of DNA between homologous chromosomes. This exchange leads to new combinations of alleles. In most organisms, this exchange is crucial for proper chromosome segregation during meiosis. Without this exchange, chromosomes segregate randomly, leading to aneuploidy in progeny. Aneuploidy can affect the viability of offspring. COs are genetically regulated and can be affected by external factors like temperature, which increases CO frequency in many plants. COs can occur through different pathways in Arabidopsis. The majority of COs are generated through the Type I pathway, which is sensitive to the placement of adjacent COs. This study shows that elevated temperature-induced COs in Arabidopsis are generated through the interference sensitive Type I pathway and act additively with Type II pathway perturbations, resulting in an enhanced hyper-recombination phenotype. These extra COs occur without an increase in meiotic double-strand breaks.
The amount of biomedical research information is growing at a very fast rate. This makes it difficult for researchers to keep up with the latest information. To solve this problem, researchers use databases that are curated by experts in the field. However, even with these databases, researchers still need to make inferences about the functions of molecules based on factors such as homology and interaction partners. There are also computational approaches that make predictions about protein function and infer the functions of large numbers of proteins. In addition to this, experiments that use high-throughput assays generate a large amount of data about the structures or activities of many genes or gene products at a time. This data is overwhelming, and it requires researchers to analyze all of the information to properly interpret the results.
This paper presents research on a type of parasite called Fasciola hepatica, which causes infections in both humans and livestock. The parasite releases extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the environment, which carry proteins and other molecules that can influence the immune system of the host. The authors studied these EVs and identified specific proteins and carbohydrates on their surface that may be responsible for their interaction with host cells. They also found that these EVs are recognized by antibodies produced by the host, and that pre-treating the EVs with these antibodies enhances their ability to be taken up by immune cells. Overall, the authors provide a detailed understanding of the surface architecture of these parasite-derived EVs and how they may influence the host immune system.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators that influence many biological processes in most eukaryotes. In plants, miRNAs are produced by a two-step process in the nucleus from long primary transcripts (pri-miRNAs). Dicer-like1 (DCL1) and hyponastic leaves1 (HYL1) are the two enzymes involved in the process. A number of proteins are involved in the process, including serrate (SE), C-terminal domain phosphatase-like 1 (CPL1), the nuclear cap-binding complex, TOUGH, and MOS2. Cycling DOF transcription factors (CDFs) are a family of DNA-binding with one finger transcription factors that play a role in photoperiodic flowering. In this study, we identified the transcription factor CDF2 that interacts with DCL1 to regulate plant flowering by affecting miRNA biogenesis at both the transcription and post-transcription levels.
Folliculogenesis is the process of growth of small ovarian follicles to larger, mature follicles. This process involves many different cell types and molecules, including growth factors, chemokines, steroids, and proteins. Folliculogenesis occurs in two phases, the early phase where the follicles remain small and the late phase where the follicles grow rapidly. During early folliculogenesis, the oocyte and granulosa cells, the main cells involved in folliculogenesis, communicate with each other to promote oocyte growth and development. This communication is regulated by several proteins and molecules, including connexin 37, which is produced by the oocyte and required for the growth and development of early follicles. We recently discovered that geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP), a molecule involved in the regulation of protein functions, is produced in the oocyte during early folliculogenesis. In this study, we generated oocyte-specific knockout mice of the gene responsible for GGPP production and found that GGPP is required for the primary-secondary follicle transition, a critical step in folliculogenesis. We also found that GGPP is involved in the physical connection between oocyte and granulosa cells and the secretion of important molecules involved in the communication between these cells. These findings highlight the important role of GGPP and protein geranylgeranylation in folliculogenesis.
The RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is a protein that makes messenger RNA (mRNA) from DNA. The DNA enters the protein and gets unwound around the active site. The Pol II then makes the mRNA, which stays connected to the DNA template for about 9 nucleotides. Then, the template DNA strand separates from the mRNA strand and re-attaches at the upstream edge of the transcription bubble. Nucleotides (NTPs) need to enter the active site to be incorporated into the mRNA strand. There are two possible routes for the NTPs to enter the active site: the main channel and the secondary channel. The secondary channel has been confirmed by crystallographic structures, biochemical studies, and computational studies. The main channel has also been suggested by crystal structures and computational studies. However, it is still unclear how NTPs enter the main channel. In this study, the authors created a structural model of the Pol II elongation complex with a complete transcription bubble based on available structures. They then used molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to study the effect of the dynamic Pol II complex on the diffusion of NTPs. Based on their results, the authors identified that the secondary channel is the major route for the NTPs to enter the active site.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that is becoming increasingly common in many tropical areas. In most cases, it causes a fever that is difficult to distinguish from other similar illnesses, making it hard to track and estimate the true number of cases. This study aims to estimate the actual number of dengue cases in Thailand and Cambodia by using laboratory-confirmed incidence data from prospective cohort studies at three field sites. This information is important for assessing the economic impact of dengue and the cost-effectiveness of potential vaccines.
The paper is about how NK cells, pDCs, cDCs, B cells, and CD8 T cells work together to fight viruses. NK cells can activate DCs and T cells to fight viruses, and DCs can activate NK cells to fight viruses. pDCs make a lot of IFN-α/β when infected with a virus, which helps fight the virus. IFN-α/β can also have other effects, like either activating or inhibiting the immune system. Some viruses make too much IFN-α/β, which can be bad for the host and good for the virus. It is not known if there are ways to fight viruses that make too much IFN-α/β. The authors found that mice that make efficient NK cells can fight viruses better and that this helps the pDCs make the right amount of IFN-α/β to help the host. The authors also found that efficient NK cells can help CD8 T cells fight viruses faster. They found that when NK cells fight the virus, they can limit the amount of IFN-α/β that pDCs make, which helps the host.
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes are arranged in groups in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. These rRNA genes are highly conserved, except for some regions of the intergenic spacer (IGS) and the non-coding regions that are removed during processing. The IGS regions are very diverse among different plant species, and they contain repeated sequences. In plants, these repeated sequences have been shown to be involved in the regulation of rRNA transcription. However, the role of these repeated sequences in controlling the activation and/or silencing of specific rRNA genes is not yet understood. A study in Arabidopsis has now provided evidence for a role of a specific protein, AtNUC-L1, in controlling the activation and repression of a specific subset of rRNA genes. The researchers used a knockdown screen in Arabidopsis to identify several genes, including AtNUC-L1, that are required for nucleolar dominance. Nucleolar dominance is a phenomenon whereby one copy of a rRNA gene from a specific region (NOR) is expressed, while the other copies in the same region are silenced. The study found that AtNUC-L1 plays a central role in a mechanism that involves IGS transcription and symmetric DNA methylation, which may be responsible for switching the expression of rRNA genes. This study provides new insights into the complex regulation of rRNA gene expression.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a type of herpesvirus that causes serious illnesses in immunocompromised adults and congenital disabilities in children. During the viral life cycle, HCMV genes are expressed in a series of events, which are highly regulated by viral proteins and enzymes. Recently, it was found that certain viral proteins can interfere with the activity of a cellular enzyme called histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), which regulates the way genes are expressed. The authors of this study used a technique called affinity purification to identify proteins that interact with HCMV-encoded proteins and HDAC1. They identified several HCMV-encoded proteins that interact with HDAC1 and found that some of these interactions are necessary for the viral life cycle to proceed normally.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) is the leading cause of pneumonia and bronchiolitis in infants and young children worldwide. It also causes frequent reinfections in adults. Researchers have used phage display libraries and real-time Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) based kinetic analysis to identify predominant epitopes recognized by antibodies acquired following early RSV infection and across different age groups. They found several novel epitopes in RSV F and G proteins and an immunodominant epitope in the F-p27, which is excised during processing of F0. The study shows an unlinked evolution of the antibody responses to F and G proteins in humans.
Filariae are parasitic worms that live in mammalian hosts. The worms can cause diseases such as elephantiasis and river blindness. For over 25 years, the World Health Organization has been using donated drugs to control these diseases through Mass Drug Administration programs. However, the worms still exist and cause distressing symptoms. To accelerate the control measures, scientists are looking for effective drugs that kill the adult worms. Emodepside is a veterinary drug that has been found to be effective against animal nematodes, but its effects on human filariae are not well understood. This study looks at how emodepside affects the adult worms of B. malayi, a species that causes lymphatic filariasis. The study shows that there are different splice variants of a protein called SLO-1 in the worms, and that these variants affect how the worms respond to emodepside. This information is important for developing better drugs to treat filarial diseases.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a disease caused by mosquito-borne parasites that can cause long-term swelling in the legs and genitals. The Global Program to Eliminate LF (GPELF) has been working to reduce the number of people at risk of getting the disease, but it is still not eliminated in many places. This is due in part to a problem called loiasis, which can be found in central Africa. People with loiasis sometimes have high counts of microfilaria (Mf) in their blood and can get false positive results on rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for LF. The purpose of this study was to find out what kinds of antigens are causing these false positive results, so that new RDTs can be developed to avoid this problem. This information may help with efforts to eliminate LF in the future.
This article describes the different parts of a cilium and their functions. A cilium is a structure found in most eukaryotic cells that helps cells move or sense their surroundings. It is made up of a long, thin structure called an axoneme and a basal body that attaches the cilium to the cell. The axoneme has nine doublet microtubules that are arranged in a specific way. The basal body is made up of two parts: the transition zone, which is close to the cell body, and the distal tip. There are also other substructures within the cilium, each with its own specific functions. Some ciliopathies, or genetic disorders that affect cilia, have been linked to specific proteins that are found in certain parts of the cilium. The article describes how different methods, such as gene expression analysis and proteomics, have been used to identify the different proteins that make up the cilium and their specific functions. By studying cilia in Caenorhabditis elegans, a type of roundworm, scientists have been able to learn more about how cilia work and what causes ciliopathies. In this article, researchers used RNA-Seq analysis to identify specific proteins that are found in the cilium and how they relate to other parts of the cilium. They found that a protein called RAB-28 is involved in the regulation of cilia and cell movement. By studying the function of this protein, researchers were able to gain new insights into how cilia work and how ciliopathies develop.
The hippocampus helps us remember things by encoding where we have been, or our position in space. Neurons, or nerve cells, in the hippocampus called place cells fire when an animal is in a particular location in space. This place field location can change depending on the environment, so a place cell can have multiple different place fields. In this study, the authors show that even without knowing where the animal is, we can still infer the general shape and size of the space, or environment, by just looking at which groups of place cells fire at the same time. They do this by analyzing the activity of place cells and using tools from mathematics to infer the topology and geometry of the environment. This work provides insight into how the brain might represent the environment without needing to know the exact location of each place cell.
Viral fulminant hepatitis (FH) is a severe liver disease that causes massive damage to hepatocytes (liver cells) and is associated with hepatic encephalopathy (a brain disorder caused by liver disease). MHV-3 (a type of coronavirus) is a common cause of FH in mice. It is known that FH is caused by an imbalance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory factors in the body. However, the exact cause of FH is not yet known. Recent studies have shown that an overactive protein called NLRP3 can cause FH by triggering the production of the protein IL-1β. This can lead to inflammation and liver damage. It is not clear what triggers the activation of NLRP3, but it is believed to be related to the production of certain molecules called danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). These molecules are produced when the body detects viruses or other foreign substances. It is thought that NLRP3 may be activated by molecules such as virus RNA, nigericin, ATP, silica crystals, mitochondrial DNA, and aluminum hydroxide. However, it is not clear what triggers NLRP3 activation in viral FH.
Hookworms, which are parasites that infect the human digestive system, cause serious health problems worldwide. They are estimated to affect over 500 million people, causing anemia and iron deficiency, especially in children. These parasites attach to the mucous lining of the bowel and feed on the blood of the host, leading to blood loss and iron deficiency. To determine the number of hookworms in the intestines, a test called Kato-Katz microscopy is used, but it is time-consuming and often not done. Two hookworm species, Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale, have different geographical distributions. N. americanus is prevalent in tropical environments, while A. duodenale prefers colder, drier conditions. However, both species cause similar symptoms, but A. duodenale is estimated to cause more blood loss per worm than N. americanus. To differentiate between these species, a multiplex real-time PCR test is used, which is more sensitive and specific than the Kato-Katz microscopy test. The objective of this study was to use the multiplex real-time PCR test to determine the prevalence of hookworms and the number of worms in children in Malawi. The study also aimed to determine the association between the two species and severe anemia and bone marrow iron deficiency in children.
In this study, the authors explore the role of a protein called COM-1 in DSB repair during meiosis in C. elegans. DSBs are breaks in DNA that can occur due to various reasons and must be repaired correctly to prevent genome instability. Two main pathways for DSB repair have been identified: HR and NHEJ. HR is considered more conservative and error-free, but it requires an undamaged template, which may not always be available. NHEJ, on the other hand, is more efficient but error-prone. The authors found that COM-1 is required to prevent chromosome aggregation and CO failure during meiosis. Specifically, COM-1 acts to block toxic Ku activity at meiotic DSBs. In addition, COM-1 plays a role in interhomolog HR, working in parallel with the nuclease EXO-1 to generate RAD-51-coated recombination intermediates at early/mid pachytene stage. Overall, the authors identify a dual role for COM-1 during meiosis, making it a crucial player in maintaining genome stability during gametogenesis.
Melioidosis is a disease caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, a bacterium found in water and wet soil. It is a significant health threat in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia, where it causes up to 40% of fatalities. The disease is also endemic in Central and South America, southern regions of China, and India. There are several methods used to diagnose melioidosis, including bacterial culture, antigen detection, and serological testing. However, current methods for diagnosing melioidosis are too slow or not sensitive enough to identify patients with severe sepsis, who have a high mortality rate. Therefore, there is a need for a more sensitive and specific diagnostic test for melioidosis.
Mitosis is a critical process in which a cell divides into two identical daughter cells. To start this process, a protein called cyclin B1 binds to another protein called cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) and turns it on, or activates it. This complex of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 is able to perform a number of tasks necessary for cell division, including separating the chromosomes in the cell's nucleus. The activation of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 is regulated by other proteins, such as Wee1, Myt1, and the Cdc25 phosphatases. These proteins make sure that cyclin B1 and Cdk1 are not activated too early, but rather are turned on at the right time during the cell cycle. However, it is not clear exactly how this regulation occurs or how the activation of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 is coordinated with other processes during cell division. In this study, the authors used a number of different methods to study the activation of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 in human cells. They found that cyclin B1 and Cdk1 are activated in late G2, the stage before mitosis, and that this activation gradually increases until the cell enters mitosis. They also found that, once activated, cyclin B1 and Cdk1 are able to continue their activity even when the cyclin B1 and Cdk1 levels are reduced. This suggests that the activation of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 is governed by a process called bistability, in which the proteins are either inactive or active, but not somewhere in between. The authors propose that the activation of cyclin B1 and Cdk1 helps to coordinate early and late mitotic events, such as the separation of the chromosomes in the nucleus.
The article discusses the development of a neutralizing antibody (Nab)-based vaccine for human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), which is a major global health challenge. The article highlights four main epitope targets on the HIV-1 Envelope that have been identified through the isolation of monoclonal antibodies from HIV-infected individuals. The article also discusses the results of a study that tested the Nab specificities of 21 superinfected women infected with HIV-1 subtypes A, C, and D. The study found that none of the women had a dominant Nab response to the four main epitope targets, suggesting that exposure to diverse HIV-1 antigens following superinfection may drive a broad and potent Nab response that may be mediated by polyclonal antibodies targeting multiple different epitopes.
Congenital Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection causes permanent brain damage in newborns and children. To understand how HCMV affects the brain, scientists have used neural progenitor cells (NPCs) as a model to study the underlying mechanisms. Hes1 is an important protein that helps NPCs grow and develop properly. HCMV infection causes Hes1 levels to decrease, which could lead to abnormal growth and development of the brain. Scientists found that IE1, a protein produced by the virus, can bind to Hes1 and cause it to be broken down. This could be a new way that HCMV causes brain damage in newborns and children.
Scientists are interested in how the genetic basis of differences in animal development can affect the way they look. They think that changes in the way genes are expressed, rather than the genes themselves, are a major source of this diversity. They believe that certain parts of the DNA that control the way genes are expressed may have important roles in the evolution of animal morphology. These parts of the DNA are called enhancers. Enhancers are known to change quickly during evolution. Scientists have found that the way transcription factors (proteins that control gene expression) bind to these enhancers is often different in related species, but they are not sure how this affects the expression of genes. To study this, scientists looked at the way four transcription factors work in four different species of Drosophila embryos. These species are closely related but have diverged over a period of 5 to 40 million years. By comparing the expression of genes and the binding of transcription factors in these four species, scientists were able to understand more about how differences in DNA sequences can affect the way that genes are expressed.
The aim of the global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis is to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020. This is done by interrupting transmission through annual single dose mass drug administration of albendazole (fixed dose 400 mg) either with diethylcarbamazine citrate or ivermectin for at least 5–6 years. The programme has been gradually scaled up to reach all 250 endemic districts spread over 20 states and union territories covering nearly 421 million people at risk in 2007. In India, the programme has been implemented in 13 of the 250 endemic districts since 1996–97. By 2010 the programme had delivered billions of treatments to nearly 897 million people in the world.
Vector control is currently the only way to prevent and control the transmission of dengue, a mosquito-borne disease. Various methods for controlling Aedes aegypti, the main mosquito species responsible for dengue transmission, are used. These methods include applying pesticides, using biological agents, or changing the environment to get rid of mosquito breeding sites. These methods can be used alone or in combination. However, it is not clear how effective these methods are in reducing dengue transmission. Previous reviews have shown that some single interventions, such as peridomestic space spraying and the use of Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis, are not very effective in reducing dengue transmission. One commonly used method for dengue vector control is temephos, an organophosphorus compound that kills mosquito larvae. It has been used since 1965 and is safe to use in drinking water. It is effective and easy to use, and its effects last longer than traditional methods. Temephos is available in different forms, such as emulsifiable concentrates, dilute solutions, dusts, and granules, including slow-release formulations. It can be applied by hand or by injection using drip system devices or power sprayers. It can also be applied to household water storage containers by using a calibrated plastic spoon to deliver a consistent dosage of 1ppm. While temephos is effective in killing mosquito larvae, it is not always effective in the field. This systematic literature review aims to assess the effectiveness of temephos in reducing dengue transmission when delivered as a single intervention or in combination with other interventions.
In budding yeast, the proper movement of chromosomes during cell division requires that the two copies of each chromosome are held together by a special protein complex called cohesin. This complex forms links between sister chromatids during DNA replication and is then broken down during cell division. The formation of these links is carried out by a complex series of steps that are tightly connected to DNA replication. In particular, a special group of proteins called the Ctf19 complex is thought to be involved in this process. These proteins have been implicated in cohesion formation, but their specific roles have not been fully defined. In this study, the authors use a genetic analysis to investigate the roles of two proteins from the Ctf19 complex, Iml3 and Chl4, in cohesion formation at the pericentromere, which is a specific region of the chromosome where cohesion is particularly important. They find that Iml3 and Chl4 are required for the formation of cohesion links at the pericentromere during both mitosis and meiosis. The authors also investigate the role of another protein called Csm3, which has previously been implicated in cohesion formation, and find that it is not involved in the formation of cohesion links at the pericentromere. Together, these findings provide new insights into the complex process of cohesion formation and its role in the proper movement of chromosomes during cell division.
A recent study examined changes in the serum metabolome and lipidome of people with dengue fever (DF). The study found that DF caused significant changes in both the metabolome and lipidome. The authors found that the body responds quickly to inflammation during DF and that this is followed by pro-resolution counterbalances to restore homeostasis. Additionally, the study identified potential associations between sphingomyelins and CD8+ lymphocyte activation during the early febrile period and between plasmalogen phosphatidylethanolamines and lysophosphatidylethanolamines with platelet numbers during the later phases of defervescence and convalescence. The authors propose that the widespread changes in the metabolome and lipidome play an important role in the self-limiting outcome of DF.
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) are a group of diseases that affect some of the world's poorest populations. Research and development efforts to find new treatments and better ways to diagnose NTDs have been increasing in recent years, but there is still a lot of work to do. In order to use limited resources more efficiently, a global observatory has been proposed to identify research needs and match funding with public health priorities. New tools are available to help analyze research activity and collaboration between researchers, but these tools have not been used much to study research on NTDs. In this study, the authors used network analysis to map research on NTDs and identify the most important researchers and collaborations. This information can help policymakers make better decisions about how to use limited resources to find new treatments and better ways to diagnose NTDs.
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) are a group of 17 parasitic, bacterial, and viral infections affecting over 1 billion people worldwide. Four of these diseases can be controlled by administering medicine to entire eligible populations or large segments of these populations, and three of these diseases are endemic in Haiti. The three soil-transmitted helminth (STH) infections caused by Ascaris, Trichuris, and hookworm affect the intestines and can cause poor cognitive development and learning capacities in children. Lymphatic filariasis (LF) causes a variety of physical and mental health complications and is one of the most debilitating parasitic diseases. Haiti has one of the largest populations of LF at risk in the Americas. The ENVISION project, led by RTI International, is a U.S. government-funded initiative that aims to control and potentially eliminate NTDs in 19 countries, including Haiti.
This paper aims to study the regulation of the cell cycle in Sinorhizobium meliloti, a type of bacteria that can form a symbiotic relationship with legume plants. The authors want to understand how the regulatory protein CtrA controls the cell cycle in S. meliloti and how it interacts with other proteins and factors in this process. To do this, they will study the effects of CtrA depletion in S. meliloti free-living cells and analyze its direct and indirect transcriptional regulons. The goal is to develop a model of CtrA cell cycle regulation in S. meliloti that can help to understand how plant factors can modify the bacterial cell cycle during symbiosis.
Francisella tularensis is a highly infectious bacterium that can cause the disease tularemia in a large number of mammalian species. Four different subspecies of F . tularensis that differ in virulence and geographic distribution exist. These are designated subsp . tularensis ( type A ) , holarctica ( type B ) , novicida and mediasiatica . F . tularensis subsp . tularensis is the most virulent subspecies causing a severe disease in humans , whereas F . tularensis subsp . holarctica causes a similar disease but of less severity. In this study, the authors identified a gene called FTL_0766 that encodes a putative gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) that plays a critical role in the virulence of F . tularensis . They used a bacteriostatic antibiotic to select intracellular growth-deficient mutants directly from a pool of mutants. One of the mutants isolated by this procedure had an insertion into gene FTL_0766 , encoding a putative GGT. The authors focused on the role of this gene in the virulence of F . tularensis . They demonstrated that FTL_0766 of F . tularensis encodes a genuine GGT involved in the metabolism of γ-glutamyl-containing peptides . GGT allows the utilization of γ-glutamyl peptides as a source of cysteine during intracellular multiplication of the pathogen , and is thus critical for virulence.
In a 1995 paper, James Moulder proposed that microbial parasites customize the morphology, composition and function of the parasitophorous vacuoles (PVs) where they are sheltered. In some cases, it is possible to generate chimeric vacuoles when cells are infected with different pathogens. In the current study, macrophages were coinfected with two species of Leishmania parasites, which are normally found in PVs with different biogenesis, morphology, and parasite occupancy. Macrophages are immune cells that can engulf and destroy infectious agents. Leishmania are a group of parasites that can cause various skin and mucous membrane infections in humans and animals. Leishmania parasites go through different forms during their life cycle. Extracellular promastigotes form in the sandfly vector and differentiate into infective amastigotes that can be taken up by macrophages. Inside the macrophage, amastigotes multiply and can be taken up by other macrophages. Leishmania PVs are organelles that are bounded by a membrane derived from the host cell and undergo changes in composition as they fuse with late endosomes/lysosomes. Most studies on Leishmania PVs have been performed with L. amazonensis, which forms large, communal PVs that contain many amastigotes. However, most Leishmania species form small, membrane-bound PVs that contain a single parasite and undergo fission as they multiply. The pH within these small PVs is around 5.5, and an increase in pH to 5.8 exacerbates intracellular infection. In the current study, macrophages infected with L. amazonensis were challenged with L. major amastigotes or promastigotes and observed by multidimensional live imaging. While L. major amastigotes were excluded, L. major promastigotes were delivered into L. amazonensis PVs, where they survived and multiplied but did not differentiate into amastigote forms.
Eliciting broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) is a major goal in HIV-1 vaccine development. However, HIV-1 infections are caused by a diverse and evolving virus, making it difficult to elicit effective antibodies. To overcome this challenge, scientists are trying to develop a vaccine platform that consistently elicits potent autologous antibodies that can neutralize tier 2 viruses. Researchers have found that a trimeric form of the HIV-1 envelope (Env) gp120/gp41 heterodimer is the optimal form of Env to induce neutralizing antibodies. Scientists have also found that DNA priming followed by protein boosting can improve the neutralizing antibody response. These findings suggest that the development of a vaccine platform based on authentic Env trimers may be the key to inducing potent autologous neutralizing antibodies.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a skin disease caused by bacteria called M. ulcerans. It often affects the subcutaneous tissue and can cause ulcers if not treated. BU can affect people of all ages, but it is more common in children and the elderly. BU lesions can appear as nodules, plaques, edema, and ulcers. Treatment for BU involves taking oral rifampicin and intramuscular streptomycin for eight weeks. However, recovery can be slow and may require skin transplantation. During treatment, some patients may experience paradoxical reactions, which can make the disease appear worse before it gets better. The healing process of BU lesions is complex and can be affected by various factors, including immune responses and secondary infections. We analyzed markers of cell activation, myofibroblast formation, and matrix deposition in tissue biopsies from BU lesions before, during, and after treatment.
Mitochondria are small organelles that generate energy and distribute it along nerve cells, or axons. To study how this process happens, scientists often use cultured cells or slices of tissue. However, there are limitations to studying mitochondrial transport in these conditions. For example, the cells are growing and developing, so the results reflect both their steady state energy needs and their growth. In addition, the slices of tissue do not have blood vessels or other regulatory mechanisms that are important for the body to function properly. To overcome these limitations, scientists have used zebrafish embryos and live nerve cells in mice to study mitochondrial transport in vivo. However, it is not known if the nerve cells in these animals behave the same way as nerve cells in humans. To study this, scientists used confocal time lapse imaging to track mitochondrial movements, distribution, and morphology along nerve cells in mice. They also used electrical and chemical stimulation to study how mitochondrial transport changes when nerve cells are active.
The study explores the mechanisms behind the development of vertebral fusions in spondylocarpotarsal synostosis (SCT) syndrome, a rare genetic disorder characterized by progressive bone fusions in the spine, hands, and feet. FLNB is a protein involved in bone growth that is required for proper endochondral ossification, a process in which cartilage is replaced by bone. In the absence of FLNB, TGFβ and BMP signaling is increased, leading to ectopic differentiation of the AF (annulus fibrosus) in the intervertebral discs (IVDs) towards a chondrogenic lineage. This results in abnormal endochondral ossification and vertebral fusions. The findings of the study provide a developmental model for degenerative disc disease, a common problem in older adults.
Transcription is a crucial process in which DNA is copied into mRNA. Pol II is the enzyme that carries out transcription and it needs help from several factors, including GTFs, to start and continue transcription. However, sometimes Pol II gets stuck on the promoter and cannot continue transcribing. This is known as pausing. Pausing is important because it allows for extra regulation of gene expression. In some cases, paused Pol II is released from the promoter by the action of P-TEFb. This allows for productive transcription to continue.
Human parvovirus B19, also known as fifth disease or slapped cheek syndrome, is a small, non-enveloped, single stranded DNA virus that can cause hematological disorders. B19V infects human erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow and fetal liver, which results in the death of infected cells. The virus has a linear single stranded DNA genome of 5,596 nucleotides and encodes four proteins: non-structural protein (NS1), and two capsid proteins (VP1 and VP2), and an 11-kDa protein that uses a different open reading frame. NS1 contains nuclear localization signals, DNA-binding/nickase, and ATPase domains. NS1 is essential for replication of viral DNA, binds the P6 promoter of the virus, and regulates viral gene expression. NS1 also transactivates several host genes, arrests cell cycle at “G2-phase,” induces apoptosis of infected erythroid progenitors, and induces late S-phase arrest. In this study, the authors performed a genome-wide RNA-seq analysis of B19V-permissive cells to identify genes that are regulated by the NS1 TAD2 domain and function in NS1-induced G2-phase arrest. The results show that the TAD2 domain is predominantly responsible for the transactivation of cellular genes in NS1-expressing cells. The authors also found that activated ATR phosphorylates CDC25C at serine 216, which in turn inactivates the cyclin B1/CDK1 complex and induces G2-phase arrest.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne virus that causes a range of illnesses, from mild to life-threatening. Dengue virus (DENV) has 4 serotypes (DENV1-4) that infect humans, causing dengue fever (DF) and dengue hemorrhagic fever/dengue shock syndrome (DHF/DSS). The DENV positive-strand 10.7 kb RNA genome encodes a polyprotein that is cleaved into 3 structural proteins and 7 non-structural proteins (NSPs). DENV NSP1 is synthesized as a monomer in infected cells and released into the extracellular milieu as a hexamer. The hexamer circulates in the blood during acute illness, and its levels correlate with dengue disease severity. Under normal physiological conditions, the microvascular endothelium maintains a low permeability to fluids and molecules. DENV NS1 plays a role in viral replication and immune evasion. Our previous study showed that DENV NS1 can directly induce endothelial hyperpermeability in vitro and vascular leak in vivo in the absence of DENV infection. In this study, we sought to evaluate the relative contributions of cytokine-driven inflammatory mechanisms and NS1-induced endothelial glycocalyx degradation to NS1 pathogenesis of the endothelium. We found that DENV NS1 triggers hyperpermeability independently of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-6. We also demonstrated that DENV NS1 induces localized vascular leak in the dermis of wild-type mice and that this effect is specific to DENV NS1 and independent of TLR4 and TNF-α signaling. Finally, we showed that DENV NS1-induced endothelial dysfunction is dependent on endothelial sialidases, cathepsin L, and heparanase both in vitro and in vivo. Our results indicate that DENV NS1 acts directly on the endothelium to induce vascular leak in vivo that is dependent on components of the glycocalyx.
In this study, the researchers present new findings about how the budding yeast septin ring is regulated during cell division. The septin ring plays a key role in separating the chromosomes during cell division, and the researchers have discovered that the regulation of this ring depends on a network of kinases and phosphatases that work together to ensure that the ring remains stable and in the correct position during cell division. They have identified two ubiquitin ligases, Dma1 and Dma2, that are involved in regulating the position of the septin ring and are required for proper cell division. They have also identified a kinase, Elm1, that works in conjunction with the ubiquitin ligases to regulate the position of the septin ring and ensure proper cell division. Overall, the study sheds new light on the complex regulatory mechanisms that control cell division in budding yeast.
The article is about how certain traits in humans, such as body size, skin pigmentation, and metabolism, are influenced by the climate and geography of the place where people live. This happens because some traits are better adapted to certain climates and geographies. These traits are called ecoclines. The article explains how scientists can identify the genetic basis of these ecoclines by studying the variation in allele frequencies, or the frequency of different versions of a gene, in different populations. The article provides evidence that several genes in humans are associated with climate and geography, and that this variation is likely due to natural selection.
The short QT syndrome (SQTS) is a rare genetic disorder that causes the heart to beat abnormally fast. This can lead to arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) and sudden death. In SQTS, the heart beats too quickly because of a problem with a type of potassium channel in the heart called hERG. The hERG channel plays an important role in regulating how fast the heart beats. Researchers have found that a mutation in the hERG gene causes SQTS. This mutation causes the hERG channel to open too quickly, which makes the heart beat too quickly. The hERG channel is responsible for a type of current in the heart called IKr, which helps to regulate how fast the heart beats. Scientists have studied the hERG channel in labs to understand more about how it works in people with SQTS. They used computer models to simulate the effects of the hERG mutation on the heart. They found that the hERG mutation causes the heart to beat too quickly and increases the risk of arrhythmias and sudden death. The results of this study provide more information about how the hERG mutation causes SQTS and how it affects the heart.
Collective behavior is a phenomenon where a group of individuals work together to achieve a common goal. There are various models to understand collective behavior, which can be classified based on their accuracy and complexity. Low-complexity models have a small number of parameters and are easy to understand, but they may miss important biological components. These models are not typically tested for their detailed quantitative predictions. New techniques allow for tracking each animal in large collectives with high precision, and can provide enough data to build accurate models of collective behavior. However, it can be difficult to increase accuracy without increasing complexity. Deep neural networks are a technique that can provide high accuracy and insight into the problem, but they can be difficult to analyze. In this paper, we propose to use deep attention networks, which express social interaction as a combination of two deep-network modules of few inputs and outputs each, and thus allow us to simultaneously achieve insight and predictive accuracy. We can illustrate the reduction of variables in a modular model by comparing it against a non-modular model. By using deep attention networks, we can reduce from 150 variables to modules of 4-6 variables, which allows for insight into the rules by analysis of these modules, while still achieving high prediction accuracy. We found deep attention networks to be well suited for this recovery, as tested for a variety of interaction rules and different number of interacting neighbors.
The paper introduces a new method to estimate the fitness cost of drug-resistant human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) by analyzing cross-sectional sequence data. This method uses a phylodynamic approach that models a birth-death-sampling process, where a "birth" event corresponds to infecting a new host and a "death" event corresponds to removing a host from the infectious pool, such as successful treatment. The approach considers each major resistance mutation separately, and allows for the quantification of fitness costs on a population level, as well as the rates at which resistance mutations evolve and are reversed.
In a genetic search for deletion mutants with altered sensitivity to H2O2, a gene was found which is required for tRNA modification. The gene is called sin3/elp3 and encodes a component of the Elongator complex. This complex is involved in the regulation of chromatin accessibility and the transcription of stress-related genes. However, the results of the study showed that the sin3/elp3 mutant does not display enough alterations in transcriptional events to explain the substantial sensitivity to peroxides. Instead, the wobble U of tRNAs for Lys, Gln, and Glu is not modified in cells lacking Sin3/Elongator. This defect in tRNA modification seems to be sufficient to cause the oxidative stress phenotype, since cells devoid of the second modification pathway, such as Ctu1 or Ctu2, are also sensitive to stress. Furthermore, overexpression of one of these tRNA species, tRNALysUUU, is sufficient to complement all the stress defects of cells lacking Sin3/Elongator. Importantly, the results of the study also show that the mRNAs for the Atf1 and Pcr1 transcription factors, which are critical for CESR gene expression and are enriched in the AAA codon for Lys, are not greatly affected in the knock-out strain (Δsin3/elp3). However, Atf1 and Pcr1 protein levels are severely decreased in Δsin3/elp3 and Δctu2 cells. Furthermore, a mutated atf1 transcript with AAA-to-AAG lysine codons is efficiently translated in all strain backgrounds.
HIV-1 is a virus that causes AIDS. It has a protein called Nef that is involved in the virus's ability to infect cells and make copies of itself. Nef can down-regulate certain molecules on the surface of cells that HIV-1 targets, such as CD4 and MHC-I. It can also affect the behavior of T cells and macrophages. Nef is found in virions, but it is not clear how it affects the infectivity of these virions. Other virion modifications are likely responsible. Nef has been shown to interact with proteins involved in intracellular vesicle formation, which may affect the way that the virus is incorporated into virions. HIV-1 Env, the protein that helps the virus enter cells, has certain features that Nef may interact with. Neutralizing antibodies can target these features, and Nef may affect their ability to neutralize the virus. In this study, the researchers used neutralizing antibodies to investigate how Nef affects the way that HIV-1 Env interacts with them.
Cholangiocarcinoma, also known as bile duct cancer, is a common type of cancer in Southeast Asia that is caused by the food-borne parasite Opisthorchis viverrini. The parasite's life cycle involves two intermediate hosts and multiple stages of development. The parasite is ingested through the consumption of raw or undercooked fish, which are the second intermediate hosts. Infected humans are the definitive hosts, and they release the parasite's eggs through their feces. The eggs hatch in the water, and the parasite infects the first intermediate host, snails, and develops into an adult worm. The worm produces eggs that are excreted in the bile and released in the water, where they infect fish and continue the life cycle. The parasite can cause cancer of the bile ducts, which is often fatal. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the parasite is needed to develop new methods for diagnosing, treating, and preventing the cancer. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing technology and bioinformatics have provided a better understanding of the systems biology of the parasite. The first reference transcriptome of the snail intermediate host, Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos, has been generated and characterized. This sequence dataset provides a valid resource for molecular studies of these organisms and can be used to identify key molecules and biological pathways associated with the processes of invasion and survival of the parasite in the snail intermediate host.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system and can later reach other organs and systems. It is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium leprae or M. lepromatosis and is more common in certain countries such as India, Brazil, and Indonesia. Leprosy can fit within a broad clinical spectrum with two antagonistic poles, from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacillary lepromatous disease. Genetic variants of the host and environmental factors influence the quality of the immune response and the development of the disease. In addition, polymorphisms of genes associated with Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases modulate susceptibility to leprosy in independent populations. The complement system includes 47 proteins and protein fragments that activate, coordinate, and regulate a proinflammatory, proteolytic cascade of the immune response. Several polymorphisms of genes of the complement system are associated with leprosy. In this study, we aim to investigate the association of polymorphisms of complement receptor 1 (CR1) with leprosy in Brazilian patients. We will also examine CR1 mRNA expression levels and serum sCR1 levels in these patients.
Metabolomics is a scientific field that analyzes the different substances (metabolites) present in an organism's biological fluids and tissues. This field helps us understand how an organism's intrinsic properties (such as genetic factors) and its exposure to lifestyle, diet, and environment affect metabolism. Metabolomic studies can involve hundreds of metabolites, which are analyzed from complex biological samples at a high rate. These metabolomic studies often involve the integration of genetic, epigenetic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data for a systems biology approach.
The aim of the paper is to discuss the use of metabolic flux analysis for understanding the behavior of metabolic networks within cells. This analysis is performed by using mathematical models that simulate the movement of metabolites and the reactions that occur within the network. However, the results of these simulations are highly dependent on the way the reaction stoichiometry is represented in the model. This can lead to incoherent predictions when different representations of the same network are used. The paper proposes a new methodology called Minimization of Metabolites Balance (MiMBl) that takes into account the reaction stoichiometry in the simulation by mapping the flux space to the metabolite turnover space. The paper demonstrates the effectiveness of this new methodology by predicting genetic interactions in the metabolic network of S. cerevisiae.
Scientists studied how the landscape affects the spread of plague in Madagascar. Plague is a disease caused by bacteria and is mainly transmitted by fleas that live on rodents. Madagascar has been dealing with plague for a long time, and many people in certain areas of the country have been infected with the bacteria. Scientists found that the areas with higher rates of plague infection in humans were also areas where the fleas carrying the disease were more genetically diverse. They think that this may be due to the different topography (landscape) of these areas. The scientists also studied the rodent populations that carry the bacteria and found that the rodent populations in areas with higher plague infection rates were more genetically diverse. They think that this may be due to the barriers (such as rivers) in the landscape that prevent the rodents from moving around. Overall, the scientists found that the landscape of the areas where plague occurs affects how the disease spreads in both the rodent and human populations.
Schistosomiasis is a disease that affects over 200 million people. Researchers have been trying to develop a vaccine to prevent the disease, but no vaccine has been successful yet. To find a potential vaccine, researchers are studying the proteins in schistosomes, the parasites that cause schistosomiasis. They found several proteins that are similar to a protein family called Ly6. These proteins have not been studied much before, but researchers think they might be important in the immune response to schistosomiasis. They studied the immune response to two of these proteins in a group of people with schistosomiasis in Uganda. They found that people with schistosomiasis had antibodies against these proteins in their blood. This suggests that these proteins might be on the surface of the parasite and could be a target for a vaccine. The study is important because it helps researchers understand the immune response to schistosomiasis and find new ways to prevent or treat the disease.
In living organisms, tissues are made of many different types of cells that have specialized functions and unique shapes. The shapes of these cells can be influenced by mechanical forces that are generated by specific molecules on the surface of cells. In this study, the researchers examined how mechanical forces control the shapes and organization of cells in the Drosophila retina, which is a thin layer of tissue that covers the back of the fly's eye. The researchers used a mechanical model to describe how the shapes of cells in the retina are influenced by the distribution and dynamic properties of the molecules that generate mechanical forces. They then used this model to test different hypotheses about how the distribution of these molecules is controlled. The researchers demonstrated that the model can successfully describe the shapes of cells in the retina, and that the model incorporates important dynamical features of morphogenesis.
The protein MT1-MMP is important for cancer cell invasion, but it is inactivated by an endogenous inhibitor that prevents persistent degradation of ECM. A recent study aimed to measure the turnover rate of MT1-MMP at a single invadopodium and analyze its role in ECM degradation. The study used FRAP experiments to analyze the turnover rate of MT1-MMP. Based on the results of these experiments, the study constructed a computational model to analyze the role of the rapid MT1-MMP turnover in ECM degradation. Simulations showed that the rapid turnover of MT1-MMP is critical for ECM degradation and that a decrease in the turnover rate of MT1-MMP would reduce ECM degradation. The study also showed that the rapid turnover of MT1-MMP works synergistically with the vesicular content of MT1-MMP in ECM degradation. Overall, the study provides a new in silico tool to design and evaluate intervention strategies in cancer cell invasion.
HIV-1 is a virus that causes AIDS. It is becoming more resistant to drugs used to treat it. It is not clear where this resistance comes from or how it spreads in the body. In this study, researchers used genetic analysis to track how HIV-1 spreads in four different parts of the body (blood, gut, lymph node, and vagina) of four monkeys infected with a virus that contains HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT-SHIV). The monkeys were treated with a drug that helps HIV-1 develop resistance. The researchers sampled HIV-1 from four different parts of the body before, during, and after the resistance developed. They also analyzed the genetic information from HIV-1 viral DNA and RNA taken from the same four parts of the body. By comparing the genetic information from different parts of the body, the researchers learned more about how HIV-1 spreads and how it develops resistance to drugs. This information could help doctors better understand and treat HIV-1 infection.
This paper describes the role of diffusible molecules in the formation of three-dimensional structures such as sacs, tubes, sheets, buds and branches. These molecules can create large-scale spatial patterns called Turing patterns, which can drive branching morphogenesis in the lung and digit morphogenesis in vertebrate limbs. However, the necessary conditions for Turing patterning are relatively restrictive. This paper describes a different mechanism by which diffusible signals can drive morphogenesis, not one based on creating patterns that act upstream of tissue growth or cell movement, but on regulating cell lineage progression, so that patterns arise directly out of tissue growth and cell displacement. This mechanism can create large-scale spatial structure, and generate sharply-demarcated tissue forms both spontaneously and in response to graded and/or transient extrinsic cues. Underlying this mechanism is a negative feedback loop that has primarily been studied for its role in size homeostasis of continually self-renewing tissues. However, this paper shows that negative feedback control of self-renewal can also achieve nearly perfectly robust final states for tissues that do not turn over. This paper describes the co-expression of renewal-inhibiting and renewal-promoting factors in the developing olfactory epithelium, muscle and other tissues. These opposing feedback loops can give rise to interesting dynamic or spatially-dynamic behaviors, which manifest as sharply localized differences in net growth. The paper mathematically defines the conditions required for underlying phenomena such as bistability, ultrasensitivity, and spatial self-organization to arise in such systems, and shows how they can be used to drive the formation of induced or spontaneous bulges, buds and fingers (the basic building blocks of many types of morphogenesis). The paper also shows that even though such phenomena arise out of the opposing interactions of diffusible factors, the patterns that arise are not Turing patterns. Rather, pattern formation is driven by the coupling between tissue growth and the inherent ultrasensitivity of the underlying system, and not by intrinsic differences in the spatial ranges of action of diffusible positive and negative signals.
Myopia, or nearsightedness, is a common eye condition that affects millions of people worldwide. In the United States, about 40% of adults have myopia that is severe enough to affect their vision. Myopia develops as a result of increased axial length of the eye, which causes images to be focused in front of the retina. Myopia can develop in childhood or early adolescence and tends to worsen during adolescence. It can also develop later in life as a complication of other eye conditions. While genetics plays a significant role in the development of myopia, there are many environmental factors that have also been linked to it. A genetic test called a genome-wide association study (GWAS) can identify genes that are associated with myopia. In a recent GWAS, researchers analyzed data from over 45,000 people and found 22 genes that are associated with the age of onset of myopia. Ten of these genes have not been previously identified. The researchers also analyzed data from a smaller cohort of 8,323 people and found that ten of the newly identified genes and one of the previously identified genes replicate in this cohort. This suggests that these genes may play a role in the development of myopia.
The paper focuses on the development of a computational model of the lamprey closed-loop neuromechanical system, a model organism for studying locomotion. The model includes a Hill-type muscle model, calcium dynamics, a passive structural model coupled to a viscous, incompressible Newtonian fluid using an immersed boundary formulation, and a coupled-oscillator representation of the CPG. The CPG receives feedback from proprioceptors located on the spinal cord that sense body movement. The paper examines the effects of two classes of feedback based on body curvature: directional feedback and magnitude feedback. The directional feedback provides both the magnitude and direction of curvature, while the magnitude feedback provides only the magnitude of curvature. The paper shows that the directional feedback alters the duration of muscle activation without altering the overall frequency, while the magnitude feedback is either generally excitatory or inhibitory, speeding up or slowing down the overall oscillation. The paper then integrates the CPG with the fluid dynamics model and examines the effects on swimming kinematics and energetics.
HIV infections are caused by the group M lineage of HIV-1, which jumped from chimpanzees to humans about 100 years ago. As it spread to other parts of the world, the virus became quite diverse, and distinct groups of viruses started to expand rapidly. The global diversity of HIV still shows the signs of strong "founder effects" that happened during this first expansion. In most places, HIV is dominated by only a few groups or types of the virus, and these are typically found in different groups of people, such as different ethnic or risk groups. These groups often have parallel, isolated epidemics that do not usually spread across national borders. The way that HIV spreads and changes over time in these places is not completely constant, but it happens quite slowly. Scientists have developed a model of how HIV spreads through networks of sexual contacts, which helps them understand how different strains of HIV compete with each other and how they spread over time. This model was based on information about generalized heterosexual epidemics in Africa.
During development, living organisms have specific features that help them function properly. One such feature is the arrangement of stripes in muscle cells. As muscle cells mature, their stripes get rearranged from a scattered pattern to tightly bundled groups that span the length of the cell instead of the width. Scientists have studied how these bundles form from their molecular parts, but we still don't know how they organize into their specialized pattern. This is important because changes in muscle structure can occur not only during development but also during diseases. Muscle cells contract in a force-dependent way, suggesting that their contraction may play a role in organizing their stripes. Scientists have observed this in non-muscle cells, where the cytoskeleton within a defined area becomes organized with increasing force. So, we hypothesized that the shape of the extracellular environment can guide the organization of the intracellular architecture and potentiate stripe formation. Because it's hard to see new stripes form in living muscle cells, scientists study this process by making muscle cells assume shapes they don't normally have in vivo using engineered substrates in a lab. To help guide these experiments, scientists developed a computer model that shows how the intracellular architecture changes depending on the shape of the extracellular environment. By comparing the computer model with their experimental results, scientists were able to figure out the roles of different parts of the stripe formation process and how they are guided spatially by the shape of the extracellular environment. After understanding these roles, scientists expanded their model to test how these architectures affect the muscle cells' function. They engineered muscle cells to have different shapes and measured their contraction strength compared to the computer model's results. Together, these results suggest that the self-assembly and organization of the stripes is facilitated by a symmetry-breaking event that is potentiated by either a geometric cue in the extracellular environment or a random event in the intracellular environment.
Dengue fever is a serious and widespread disease that affects millions of people around the world. There is currently no effective vaccine or cure, making it important to develop alternative methods of control. One promising approach is the use of Wolbachia, an endosymbiotic bacterium that is naturally present in many insect species. Wolbachia can be used to reduce dengue transmission by infecting the mosquitoes that carry the dengue virus. Wolbachia can prevent or severely reduce infection by dengue in the mosquito host, as well as preventing females from producing viable offspring without Wolbachia. This makes it easier for Wolbachia to spread through the mosquito population. The use of Wolbachia as a biocontrol tool has been successful in reducing dengue transmission in field trials in Australia, Vietnam, and Indonesia. However, the effectiveness of Wolbachia may vary depending on the physical, environmental, and socioeconomic conditions at different locations. Therefore, it is important to identify these conditions and determine if they could potentially limit the spread of Wolbachia. This work aimed to determine whether the likelihood of a successful Wolbachia invasion could be influenced by differences between release sites in preparation for the release of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes in Brazil. The results of this study show that successful invasion is likely for all sites; however, the means by which this occurs may vary between sites. The results of this work can help to develop optimized release strategies for each field site, which will greatly benefit the upcoming biocontrol trials.
Histone methylation is an important way that cells change the way they use their DNA. It affects how genes are turned on or off, which can impact everything from our health to our behavior. There are enzymes that can add or remove methyl groups, and scientists are trying to learn more about them. One of the enzymes they are focusing on is called JMJ703. JMJ703 is an enzyme that can remove methyl groups from histones. Scientists have found that it is important for the growth and development of plants, and they have studied its structure and function. They have found that it is similar to other enzymes in that it can remove methyl groups, but it also has unique features that make it different from other enzymes. They also found that certain parts of the enzyme are important for its function, and that some of these parts are shared with other types of enzymes that have similar functions. This can help scientists understand how these enzymes work, and how they can be used to help with medical problems like cancer.
HIV-1 infection is a complex process that involves many host factors. Cyclophilin A (CypA), karyopherin substrate CPSF6, nuclear import/pore proteins TNPO3, NUP153, NUP358, and LEDGF have all been shown to play a role in HIV-1 infection. These factors are recruited by the viral core, and play a key role in reverse transcription, capsid uncoating, nuclear entry, and integration. Different factors may act at different stages of HIV-1 infection and are likely to work together in a coordinated way. The viral capsid plays a crucial role in the recruitment of these factors and how they influence each other. The importance of each factor is dependent on a specific residue in the viral capsid protein CA, which is important for binding to the host factors and for reverse transcription. The crystal structures of the complexes formed between CA and the different host factors reveal that these factors bind to different sites on CA. CPSF6 and TNPO3 have a common binding motif, but their interactions with CA are distinct. The crystal structures provide a molecular basis for the association of these factors with the viral core and for the resulting effects on HIV-1 infection.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti can spread dangerous diseases like dengue, yellow fever, and chikungunya. This mosquito species originated in Africa and was spread globally through trade and travel. In the 1960s, Ae. aegypti was virtually eliminated from 21 countries in the Americas through a continental eradication effort. However, the mosquito has re-established itself in many regions and causes diseases in humans. Scientists have been trying to control the mosquitoes with methods like releasing transgenic males and infecting the mosquitoes with bacteria. However, these methods are not yet effective, and scientists need to understand more about the mosquitoes' genome to create better control techniques. The mosquito Ae. aegypti has a large genome that is difficult to assemble. To understand the genome better, scientists have used genetic and physical mapping techniques to identify the location of scaffolds on the chromosomes. In addition, they have found a major resistance locus to the filarial nematode Brugia malayi on the first chromosome, which could potentially be used as a genetic tool to compare vector populations and understand vector competence in different mosquito populations.
This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of different types of traps for catching mosquitoes. Four traps were used to catch mosquitoes: the ovitrap, MosquiTRAP, Adultrap, and BioGent-Sentinel. The study took place in five cities in Brazil that were monitored simultaneously. The results showed that all traps caught mosquitoes, but the Adultrap trap was more effective. The study also found that trap indices were consistent over time, but larval indices were not always consistent. Overall, the results suggest that using traps for mosquito surveillance is a viable alternative to using larval surveys.
The human protein APOBEC3G (A3G) is a protein that prevents HIV-1 from replicating in human cells. A3G has two CDA domains, and both of them are needed to stop HIV-1 from replicating. The crystal structure of APOBEC3G and a related protein called APOBEC2 has been studied, and it has been found that these proteins can form tetramers. A tetramer is a group of four proteins that form a complex together. It has been shown that A3G also forms tetramers, but it is not as well understood as the tetramer formation of APOBEC3G. In this study, the authors show that hydrophobic residues that are important for the tetramer formation of A3G are also important for its ability to stop HIV-1 from replicating. They also show that a positively charged pocket at the predicted dimer interface of A3G is important for its ability to stop HIV-1 from replicating.
The authors sequenced the bab locus, which controls pigmentation in the adult cuticle of Drosophila, from 96 flies to understand the genetic variation responsible for this trait. Bab is made up of two anciently duplicated paralogs that are involved in patterning the adult abdomen, legs, and ovaries. Previous studies have shown that bab alleles are responsible for 60% of the genetic variation in female abdominal pigmentation within a natural population of Drosophila. The authors found that the bab locus extends for less than 1 kb, providing an opportunity to dissect the causative nucleotide variation that contributes to the cumulative effect of QTL alleles. They also found evidence of directional selection in two regions within the bab locus, including a cis-regulatory element that controls sex-specific abdominal pigmentation. The authors were able to identify specific DNA polymorphisms responsible for variation in gene expression and, ultimately, in pigmentation.
The bacteria known as Streptococcus pneumoniae (or pneumococcus) lives in the human nose and throat and is a common cause of pneumonia, meningitis, and other infections. The pneumococcus is well adapted to living in the nose and throat because it can change its outer coating (capsule) easily, which helps it to avoid being recognized and eliminated by the body's immune system. Pneumococcus is able to change its capsule because it has a special system that allows it to take up and exchange genetic material with other bacteria. This system, called "competence," is controlled by a quorum sensing system that responds to a chemical signal called CSP. When the quorum sensing system is activated, the pneumococcus becomes competent and can take up new genetic material, which may help it to survive in the competitive environment of the nose and throat. The pneumococcus also produces bacteriocins, which are chemicals that kill other bacteria. The production of bacteriocins is controlled by a system called "blp" and is also regulated by the quorum sensing system that responds to CSP. When the quorum sensing system is activated, the pneumococcus becomes competent and may also produce bacteriocins, which can kill other bacteria and help the pneumococcus to take up new genetic material. This genetic material could come from other bacteria that the pneumococcus kills with its bacteriocins. Overall, the ability of the pneumococcus to change its capsule and produce bacteriocins helps it to survive and compete in the complex environment of the nose and throat.
Translation of eukaryotic mRNAs typically occurs via a cap-dependent mechanism ( Figure 1A ) where the 7-methyl guanosine cap at the 5′ end of the mRNA is recognized by the eukaryotic initiation factor 4F (eIF4F) cap binding complex. The eIF4F complex consists of three proteins: eIF4A, eIF4G, and eIF4E. The complex then recruits the ribosome to the mRNA for translation initiation. The 40S ribosomal subunit binds to the 5′ noncoding region (5′ NCR) of the RNA and translation initiation occurs a few hundred nucleotides downstream from the cap. However, some viruses, like picornaviruses, have evolved a cap-independent translation initiation mechanism ( Figure 1B ) where the 40S ribosomal subunit binds to an RNA sequence, structure, or ribonucleoprotein complex in the 5′ NCR of the RNA. This mechanism involves internal entry of ribosomes for translation initiation. The binding of ribosomes to the RNA occurs without a 5′ cap and involves specific sequences and structures within the 5′ NCR. The poliovirus and encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) viral genomic RNAs were the first RNAs found to contain sequences in their 5′ NCRs, termed internal ribosome entry sites (IRESes), which mediate the internal binding of ribosomes for translation initiation. During almost all picornavirus infections, cap-dependent translation is shut-down via cleavage of translation factors by viral proteinases. The viruses utilize IRES-mediated translation initiation to direct the synthesis of viral proteins. Certain IRES trans-activating factors (ITAFs), such as poly (rC) binding protein 2 (PCBP2), have been extensively studied for their role in picornavirus translation. PCBP2 is a 38 kDa cellular RNA binding protein that has been associated with RNA stability and translational regulation of cellular mRNAs. This protein is also known to bind the 5′ NCR of several picornavirus RNAs. For poliovirus, the binding of PCBP2 to stem-loop IV in the IRES is required for translation, and depletion of PCBP2 from cell-free extracts results in a dramatic decrease in viral translation. Poliovirus also requires the interaction of PCBP2 with cellular splicing factor SRp20, and these two proteins have been shown to function synergistically in poliovirus translation. SRp20 is a 20 kDa RNA binding protein that shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells, and contains one RNA-recognition motif (RRM) and one serine/arginine-rich (RS) domain. SRp20 functions in constitutive splicing as well as alternative splice site selection in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. In this study, we observed a dramatic re-localization of SRp20 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of poliovirus-infected cells, where we also observed partial co-localization with PCBP2 during infection. We also demonstrated that both PCBP2 and SRp20 partially co-sediment in translation initiation complex-containing fractions. Finally, we designed a deleted version of SRp20 lacking one of its functional domains (denoted SRp20ΔRRM), and determined that its localization in mock- and poliovirus-infected cells (and co-localization with PCBP2) resembled that of the wild type SRp20 protein. Significantly, expression of SRp20 lacking the RRM domain resulted in an approximate two-log decrease in virus yield for poliovirus when compared to expression of wild type SRp20. Taken together, these results support the model that SRp20 interacts with PCBP2 on poliovirus RNA, and this interaction functions either directly or indirectly to recruit the translation machinery to the viral RNA for IRES-mediated translation initiation.
The neural crest (NC) is a group of cells that form during the development of a fetus. These cells can turn into many different types of cells, such as the pigment cells of skin, the nerve cells of the nervous system, and the cells that make up the heart. There are many diseases that can happen when the NC cells don't develop properly, which is called a neurocristopathy. One gene that is important for NC cells to develop properly is Sox10. Mice that have a mutation in Sox10 can show symptoms like those seen in neurocristopathies. These mice are also useful for studying the development of NC cells because they have a gene that reports where the Sox10 protein is expressed in the mouse. We used this gene to study how Sox10 works during NC cell development. We found four mutations that changed the way Sox10 was expressed in the mouse. One of these mutations was caused by a mistake in the Erbb3 gene. This mistake caused the protein made by this gene to be a little different, and this change affected the way that the NC cells developed. We showed that this little change was enough to stop the NC cells from developing properly, which led to embryonic lethality.
Schistosomiasis is a common disease that affects over 200 million people worldwide. A study has been done in a fishing community in Uganda to better understand the factors that contribute to reinfection with the parasite. The study found that age and sex are important factors that contribute to the risk of reinfection. It also found that the Alur people in this community may be more susceptible to infection. The study also explored the role of immune responses to schistosomes in protecting against reinfection. By taking a multidisciplinary approach, the study was able to better capture and adjust for variations in exposure, leading to more robust conclusions.
Clonorchiasis is a disease caused by eating raw or undercooked freshwater fish infected with Clonorchis sinensis, a type of parasitic flatworm. Although patients with clonorchiasis often do not show any symptoms, it can lead to serious complications such as cholangiocarcinoma. Therefore, it is important to diagnose and treat clonorchiasis as early as possible. There are several methods for diagnosing clonorchiasis, including fecal examination, serology, and ultrasonography of the liver. The Kato-Katz (KK) method is a way of counting the number of eggs in feces that can estimate the intensity of infection. In this study, we recovered adult Clonorchis sinensis worms from 42 egg-positive and 10 egg-negative individuals in a hyperendemic area, and compared the number of worms with the number of eggs counted using the KK method. We found a correlation between the number of worms and the number of eggs counted in the feces of infected individuals. This suggests that counting the number of worms could be a direct method of diagnosing clonorchiasis, especially in cases with high egg counts.
The authors present a study where they used genetic screens to identify new targets for antifungal drugs against Candida glabrata, a species that causes fungal infections and is resistant to azole drugs. The authors used a genetic approach to identify synthetic lethal and synthetic sick interactions with mutations in the PDR1 gene, which is involved in azole resistance. They then used this data to identify small molecule inhibitors that could be used to treat azole resistant C. glabrata infections.
Poliovirus, a type of enterovirus, infects cells by invading the cytoplasm and replicating its genetic material. The events between virus entry and the start of exponential amplification of the genetic material are called the eclipse phase. The eclipse phase includes important steps like the translation of viral proteins, the establishment of the site of replication, and the assembly of the virus. The study by Ehrenfeld et al. used electron tomography to observe the structures induced by poliovirus during the eclipse phase. The authors found that the most dramatic changes to the cell membrane occurred after the replication of the viral genetic material had started. They also found that the virus-induced organelle, previously thought to be located in the perinuclear region of the cell, is actually made up of a network of vesicles. The authors concluded that the vesicles are the virus-assembly organelle, a site where new viral particles are made and assembled. However, the authors also found that the network of vesicles was not present in the earliest stages of the eclipse phase. Instead, the earliest events included remodeling of cell membranes and the formation of tubular membranes. The authors suggest that tubular membranes are the genome-replication organelle, a site where the viral genetic material is copied. The authors also found that a mutant strain of poliovirus, which cannot be cleaved at a specific site, has a longer eclipse phase and exhibits defects in the assembly of infectious virus particles. They suggest that vesicular clusters, which are thought to be a later stage organelle, may contribute to steps after genome replication that are required for the production of infectious virus. Overall, the study provides important insights into the structure and function of the organelles that are induced during the eclipse phase of poliovirus infection. It also highlights the importance of the P3 proteins in the formation and function of these organelles.
Chagas disease is a disease that can be caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi . The parasite's life cycle involves two replicative forms, an epimastigote in the insect vector and an amastigote in the infected mammal . The disease can have an acute phase or a chronic phase, with the acute phase starting shortly after infection and the chronic phase developing over many years. The acute phase may not be noticed because it is symptom-free or exhibits only mild symptoms that are not unique to Chagas disease. The chronic phase can cause symptoms that affect the heart, nervous and digestive systems . Chagas disease can be treated with nifurtimox and benznidazole, but these drugs are not effective in chronically infected patients and have severe side effects. The development of new, safer and more effective drugs to treat Chagas disease is important. A protein called cruzain has been identified as a potential target for drug development, and has excellent pre-clinical validation evidence . Several classes of peptide and non-peptide inhibitors have been identified as effective at inhibiting cruzain. In this study, a screening of a database of commercially-available compounds for virtual screening was performed, followed by enzymatic assays, X-ray crystallography and SAR studies. Of the compounds screened, five were found to be trypanocidal, meaning they were able to kill the infective form of the parasite. A new fragment of the 2-acetamidothiophene-3-carboxamide class was also identified, which can advance the search for new non-covalent cruzain inhibitors.
The yellow fever (YF) virus causes a disease that results in over 200,000 cases and 30,000 deaths per year, with 90% of cases occurring in Africa. Currently, the only effective way to prevent YF infection is through vaccination. However, despite improvements in the manufacturing process and quality control, severe side effects resulting from vaccination continue to be reported. In view of this, the development of alternative vaccination strategies, such as DNA-based vaccines, has been considered. In this study, researchers investigated T-cell and humoral immune responses to the envelope of YF virus in mice immunized with DNA formulations expressing the full-length YF envelope protein, either as a wild-type or fused to LAMP. The results showed that the YF 17DD vaccine produced higher neutralizing antibody titers than the DNA vaccines. However, both DNA vaccine constructs encoding the entire E protein were also able to protect the mice against lethal challenge.
V. cholerae, the bacteria responsible for cholera, naturally lives in the marine environment and forms biofilms on the shells of microscopic crustaceans called zooplankton. These zooplankton have chitin shells, which are made up of N-acetylglucosamine. Chitin is the second most abundant biopolymer on the planet, and Vibrio species play an important role in recycling it in the aquatic environment. Chitin is also important for cholera transmission to humans because cholera outbreaks are seasonal and closely associated with blooms of chitinous zooplankton. Chitin oligosaccharides can also make V. cholerae more likely to take up and use chitin as a source of food and energy. Chitin degradation, uptake, and utilization are regulated by a protein called ChiS. ChiS is normally turned off by a protein called CBP, which binds to chitin oligosaccharides. However, ChiS can be turned on by deleting CBP or by exposing it to chitin oligosaccharides. In this study, the authors screened for proteins that are required for ChiS to turn on the chb operon, which encodes the genes that help V. cholerae take up and use chitin. They found a new transcriptional activator that helps turn on the chb operon.
This paper presents a novel nonlinear programming (NLP) framework for solving large-scale parameter estimation problems arising in biological models. The framework is based on a direct transcription approach that converts the dynamic model into a large set of algebraic equations by applying time-discretization techniques. The resulting NLPs are of high dimension (hundreds of thousands to millions of variables and constraints) but are also sparse and structured. The sparsity and structure of the NLPs allow for efficient handling of many parameters and experimental data sets, and the availability of derivative information enables efficient solution using advanced optimization methods. The paper demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed framework by solving challenging parameter estimation problems arising in microbial community models and shows that the framework can be easily extended to handle advanced estimation formulations. The paper also introduces a novel problem formulation for parameter estimation using risk measures.
The West Nile virus (WNV) is a disease-causing virus that naturally occurs in parts of the Americas, Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. It is transmitted by mosquitoes and infects birds, humans, and other animals. Humans infected with WNV develop a febrile illness that is self-resolving, but a subset of cases may develop meningitis or encephalitis. WNV has become a major public health concern in North America. From 1999 to 2012, over 37,000 cases of WNV infections were reported in the US, of which 16,114 were neuroinvasive and 1,549 were fatal. Since its introduction in 1999, the US has experienced annual epidemics of WNV disease, with a peak in 2002-2003. Since then, the number of cases has remained relatively constant until a sudden increase in 2012. Large outbreaks of neuroinvasive disease in humans and horses involving multiple lineages of WNV have also been reported in European countries. Researchers have used various mouse models, including inbred and outbred mice, to study the host response to WNV infection and identify aspects of innate and adaptive immune responses that offer protection against WNV infection. Microarray analysis has been used to detect changes in gene expression after viral infection in order to better understand the immune mechanisms governing viral pathogenesis. The nCounter molecular detection and quantitation system was used to examine how infection with highly neuroinvasive WNV strain 382–99 (often termed “NY99”) altered the kinetics of the inflammatory response over the course of infection in a common outbred mouse model of neuroinvasive WNV disease. Genes common to multiple tissues that are differentially expressed when WNV RNA is detected and genes that are differentially expressed in a tissue-specific manner following active WNV infection across multiple tissues over the entire course of infection are reported.
Rabies is a deadly virus that affects the central nervous system. It is caused by a bite from an infected animal, usually a rabid dog. Rabies is a major health problem in many low and middle income countries, and Mozambique is one of the countries with the highest burden. The Mozambican government has a plan to control rabies, but it is not well implemented. In Maputo City, Mozambique, a rabies outbreak was discovered in July 2014. To investigate the outbreak and determine the risk factors for developing rabies, researchers collected information on human rabies cases and animal bites in the city and neighboring Matola City. They found that most of the rabies cases were in children and that the incubation period of rabies in children was shorter than in adults. They also found that people who did not receive post-exposure prophylaxis after being bitten by a dog were more likely to develop rabies. The researchers hope that their findings will help the Mozambican government develop better strategies to control rabies and prevent future outbreaks.
Fevers are the most common cause of seizures in young children, known as Febrile Seizures (FS). These seizures affect 2-5% of European and North American children. Studies suggest a genetic cause for FS, as they run in families and siblings of those with FS have a 2-9% chance of developing seizures later in life. Some of these later-onset seizures can be severe and resistant to anticonvulsant therapy. These seizures include generalized convulsive, as well as simple and complex partial seizures. FS can also be a sign of a more serious condition called Dravet syndrome, which is an early-onset epilepsy disorder characterized by prolonged and non-discriminatory lateralized seizures. Dravet syndrome is caused by a mutation in the SCN1A gene that encodes the alpha subunit of the sodium channel. However, some patients with Dravet syndrome do not have a mutation in the SCN1A gene, suggesting a complex genetic etiology. Linkage analysis identified a 10 centimorgan region on chromosome 2q24 containing five sodium channel α subunit genes, including SCN1A, that are highly expressed in the brain. These genes have been linked to epilepsy and seizure susceptibility.
This paper introduces a new framework, called GPT-framework, for modeling how tissues grow and develop into specific shapes. To create this framework, the authors start by explaining how growth and shape are related to one another. They point out that final shape is not directly determined by locally specified properties, but rather depends on the mechanical constraints of the surrounding tissue. They then describe two ways in which genes can influence how tissue grows. In one way, they say, genes control the rate at which a particular region of tissue grows. In another way, they say, genes control the direction in which a particular region of tissue grows. They also explain how stresses in the tissue can act as cues for orienting growth. The authors then introduce a new concept, called "polarity," which describes the direction in which a particular region of tissue grows. They say that this concept is similar to the concept of stress, but rather than stresses acting as cues for orienting growth, polarity acts as a cue for orienting growth. The authors then describe how polarity can be generated by the concentration of signaling molecules. They say that this concept is useful for understanding how tissue develops into specific shapes. They then introduce a new software program, called GFtbox, that can be used to create models of tissue growth and development. They explain that their model can be constrained by experimental data, such as gene expression patterns and tissue geometry. The authors then describe how their model can be used to explain key observations about the development of a snapdragon flower. They show how their model can be used to generate a wide range of tissue shapes, by combining different ways in which growth and polarity interact. They also describe the theoretical foundations on which their model is based.
The immune system fights back against HIV, a virus that attacks the body's defense system, by using a type of T cell called CD8+. These CD8+ T cells can recognize and kill HIV-infected cells, which is important for the body's defense against the virus. To study the effectiveness of CD8+ T cells against HIV, researchers need to determine how fast they can kill HIV-infected cells. This can be done by looking at the rate at which HIV mutates to escape from CD8+ T cell recognition and killing. When HIV mutates, it changes its surface proteins so that it cannot be recognized by CD8+ T cells. These changes can make the virus more dangerous, as it can replicate more quickly and spread to other cells in the body. The rate at which HIV mutates to escape CD8+ T cell recognition is called the "escape rate." It is important to study escape rates, as they can tell researchers how well CD8+ T cells are working to control the virus. In this study, researchers used computer modeling to look at how CD8+ T cells and HIV interact and mutate during the early stages of HIV infection. They found that the escape rate decreases over time, meaning that HIV mutations that help it evade CD8+ T cells become less common. This suggests that CD8+ T cells are having a positive effect on the body's ability to fight HIV.
The goal of this study is to develop a method to estimate the in vivo cell killing ability of chemotherapy based on data routinely measured in clinical practice. This is done through a simulation model of tumor response to chemotherapy, which takes into account the effect of tumor kinetics on treatment outcome. The model incorporates patient-specific data such as imaging-based, histological, molecular, and treatment data. The core simulation model of tumor cell multiplication stems from previous work of the In Silico Oncology-In Silico Medicine Group, National Technical University of Athens. Several extensions and adaptations have been made to account for the modeling of combination chemotherapy and the mechanism of action of the drugs considered. By using statistical sampling methods to overcome intrinsic uncertainties in model parameter values, a methodological framework has been proposed that enables the application of mechanistic simulation models on the retrospective analysis of accumulated clinical data in a systematic way. The study is validated by using real anonymized clinical data from 13 patients with primary NSCLC who were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy with various combinations of the antineoplastic agent cisplatin with gemcitabine, vinorelbine, and docetaxel.
Biofilm formation by bacteria can make them more resistant to antibiotics, which is a major health threat [1]. This resistance comes from two processes, persistence and drug indifference. Persistence is when only some bacteria become resistant, while drug indifference is when all bacteria become resistant [2, 3]. However, it is not well understood how drug indifference works. Researchers are trying to figure out how biofilms can be resistant to antibiotics. One way that they are doing this is by looking at how certain mutations in bacteria that form biofilms affect their resistance to antibiotics. They found that some mutations in bacteria that make biofilms can make them more resistant to antibiotics. They also found that some nutrients can make them more resistant. They also found that some genetic changes can make them more resistant. They also found that the longer a biofilm gets, the more resistant it becomes. Therefore, researchers have found a new way to understand how bacteria become resistant to antibiotics when they form biofilms.
Plasmodium falciparum malaria is a disease that affects humans and is caused by the Plasmodium falciparum parasite. The intra-erythrocytic stage of the parasite life cycle starts when merozoites invade and multiply within host red blood cells. This process involves a complex set of molecular interactions between red cell surface receptors and parasite protein ligands, which are stored in apical membrane-bound organelles known as micronemes and rhoptries. The two-step process of secretion of these proteins to the merozoite surface is critical for successful invasion. In this study, we have demonstrated that another second messenger, cAMP, plays a central role in regulating cytosolic Ca2+ levels and microneme secretion during merozoite invasion of red blood cells. We have shown that exposure of merozoites to a low K+ environment as found in blood plasma activates the cytoplasmic adenylyl cyclase β (PfACβ) leading to a rise in cytosolic cAMP levels and activation of protein kinase A (PKA), which regulates microneme secretion. The results suggest that cAMP plays a central role in the process of microneme secretion and invasion of red blood cells by Plasmodium falciparum merozoites.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted nematode that is often overlooked among neglected tropical diseases. It is found worldwide except in the far north and south, but it's hard to estimate its prevalence because most diagnostic methods don't work well. Infected people can spread the parasite to others through their feces, and it can cause systemic infections that can be fatal in immunosuppressed individuals. This review looked at the prevalence of S. stercoralis in different countries and groups of people, using a special method to combine the results from different studies. The study found that S. stercoralis is prevalent in many parts of the world, and that certain risk groups, such as refugees and immigrants, have higher rates of infection.
Circadian rhythms are daily patterns of gene expression and physiological changes in living organisms. In mammals, these rhythms are controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the brain, which synchronizes the body's internal clock with the external environment. At the tissue level, SCN controls the rhythms of cells within tissues. However, the coupling between cells in the same tissue and between different tissues is very weak. Researchers have used bioluminescent reporters to study the inner workings of the circadian clock. These reporters can be used to screen for small molecules or genetic mutations that affect the clock. By analyzing the bioluminescence of these reporters, researchers can calculate the amplitude and period of the rhythms, as well as the amount of stochastic noise. This information can help in the search for drugs to boost clock amplitude and improve circadian function.
Scientists have been looking for new ways to fight against antibiotic-resistant bacteria. They have found that FtsZ, a protein found in bacteria, could be a potential target. FtsZ helps with cell division in bacteria and is similar to a protein called tubulin found in people. Scientists have studied FtsZ and found that a drug called PC190723 could work by binding to a specific part of the protein. However, it is not clear exactly how PC190723 works. In this study, scientists used a computer program called PocketFEATURE to look at the part of FtsZ where PC190723 binds. They found that PC190723 binds best to a version of FtsZ that is already bound to a molecule called GDP and is in a specific shape. This study gives scientists more information about how PC190723 might work and could help them find other drugs that work in a similar way.
Retroviruses, such as HIV, infect and take over the DNA of human cells. To do this, the virus's enzyme called integrase (IN) must integrate the viral DNA into the host DNA. The IN enzyme does this by first cutting off two nucleotides from each end of the viral DNA and then joining them to the host DNA. This process happens in several steps, including 3′-processing, strand transfer, and the formation of a stable provirus. Retroviral INs have three domains: a central catalytic core domain (CCD) and two other domains, N- and C-terminal domains (NTD and CTD). The NTD is important for binding to the host protein LEDGF, which helps the IN enzyme to integrate the viral DNA into the host DNA. The CCD of IN is responsible for the actual integration process. Previous research has shown that the NTD of IN interacts with LEDGF, but the exact details of this interaction are not well understood. In this study, we used crystallography to determine the structure of the NTD of IN bound to LEDGF. Our results show that the NTD of IN forms a stable complex with LEDGF and that this complex is important for the integration process. This study provides important insights into the molecular mechanisms of retroviral integration and may help to develop new strategies for treating viral infections.
Cells in the body are constantly changing and adapting to maintain their functions and structure. These cells can be found in different organs and have different abilities and lifespans. For example, stem cells are the foundation of a cell hierarchy and are responsible for tissue repair and regeneration. They are usually non-dividing and only become active when needed. When cells become cancerous, they can gain the ability to divide rapidly and spread throughout the body. This is similar to the way stem cells work, but cancer cells have different properties and can grow indefinitely. Understanding the characteristics of cancer cells can help us understand how and why certain types of cancer develop.
New research studies how the emergence of new human infections can be predicted and prevented. The study focuses on viruses that have the ability to jump from animals to humans, such as influenza and the coronavirus that causes COVID-19. The study uses mathematical models to predict how the emergence of these viruses could be slowed down or prevented. The models consider how human contact patterns and other factors that affect the spread of disease could impact the emergence of new infections. The study also looks at how spatial structures, such as villages and cities, could affect the emergence of new infections. The researchers suggest that if we know how a virus would adapt to humans, we could potentially predict its emergence. The study provides useful information for public health officials who are trying to prevent the spread of new infections.
This study aims to understand the movement and spread of influenza viruses in migrating birds in North America. Wild birds have been implicated in the spread of influenza viruses, including the highly contagious H5N1 avian influenza. These viruses can spread over long distances during bird migration. This study analyzed viruses collected annually from birds in Alberta, Canada and Delaware Bay, USA over a 25-year period and identified 20 discrete regions where these viruses were collected. By comparing the genetic makeup of these viruses, the study found that they were structured according to migratory bird flyways, and that the viruses were able to move between these regions. The study also analyzed the reassortment patterns and evolutionary genomics of these viruses. Overall, the study provides important information about the movement and spread of influenza viruses in migrating birds in North America.
Neutralizing antibodies play a crucial role in protecting against influenza virus infection. Most neutralizing antibodies target hemagglutinin (HA), a major surface glycoprotein found on influenza viruses. There are sixteen different subtypes of HA found in avian and mammalian species. These subtypes are named H1 through H16 and they have different structures. The HA of influenza A viruses has a globular head region and a stem region. The globular head region contains the parts of HA that bind to sialic acid receptors on the surface of cells, while the stem region contains the parts that allow the virus to enter cells and fuse with their membranes. The globular head region is where most of the variation is found among different HA subtypes. The structures of antigenic sites in H1, H2, and H3 subtypes have been well-characterized. Recent studies have shown that the antigenic sites of H5 and H9 subtypes differ from those of H1, H2, and H3 subtypes. To understand how neutralizing antibodies work, researchers often use polyclonal antisera to different HA subtypes, which are obtained by immunizing animals with inactivated viruses. These antibodies have little cross-reactivity with other HA subtypes. However, recent studies have shown that intranasal immunization with inactivated viruses can provide heterosubtypic protection in mice, suggesting a role for cross-reactive antibodies in heterosubtypic immunity against influenza viruses. In this study, researchers used mice to create a new type of monoclonal antibody that can neutralize a variety of HA subtypes. This antibody recognizes a common epitope on the globular head region of HA and stops the virus from binding to sialic acid receptors. This study suggests that antibodies have the potential to provide heterosubtypic immunity against influenza A virus infection.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a common infection worldwide, with an estimated 30-100 million cases. It is a soil-transmitted helminth that can cause hyperinfection syndrome in immunosuppressed people. There is no general agreement on how to control the infection, with some advocating for environmental management and others for pharmacological control. Oral ivermectin is the treatment of choice, but disagreement persists over the need for widespread testing and elimination of the infection. ELISA testing is sensitive and specific enough for use in clinical settings and is recommended for diagnosis of the infection in the Australian context. The current study is a three-year follow up of a cohort of patients tested and treated for the infection in an Aboriginal community in northern Australia. The study examines the long-term outcome for adults who continue to live in an endemic community without environmental manipulation and validates the use of a lower ELISA threshold for treatment.
Prion diseases are a group of illnesses that affect both animals and humans. They are caused by the prion agent, which is mainly made up of an abnormal form of a protein called PrPSc. The prion agent causes prion propagation, which is a three-step process in which PrPSc binds to PrPC, converts PrPC into PrPSc, and then fragments into new PrPSc polymers for PrPC to bind to. Prion strains are different types of prion disease that have unique characteristics such as the incubation period, clinical signs, tissue tropism, and host range. Strain-specific properties of PrPSc include differences in migration properties, PK cleavage site, and conformation, which have been found to be heritable. In this study, researchers investigated the ability of two relatively low-converting prion strains to interfere with each other in vivo and in vitro and the contribution of PrPC in this process.
Allostery refers to the effect of binding a ligand to one part of a protein, which affects the function of another part of the protein that binds with a substrate. In history, there have been different models to explain allostery. These models include the classical MWC ( Monod-Wyman-Changeux ) model and the KNF ( Koshland-Nemethy-Filmer ) model. The MWC model explains allostery based on a cooperative conformational transition of protein oligomers, while the KNF model considers finite subunit interactions and proposes a progressive conformational transition of each domain step by step. Both models suggest that allosteric processes are closely associated with ligand-driving conformational changes that propagate between the allosterically coupled binding sites. In recent years, with the development of structural biology, there have been different models proposed to explain the allostery of disordered proteins and disordered regions. One of these models is the EAM ( Ensemble Allostery Model ), which describes how allostery arises due to the interface interaction free energy between two ordered domains, and how disordered states have no affinity to ligands and substrates. The EAM model has provided insight into why disordered proteins are so prevalent in allostery. However, the pristine EAM model only considers the order-disorder transition, but lacks the order-order transition. Therefore, to get a full view of competition of ordered and disordered proteins in allostery, a comprehensive model considering both order-disorder and order-order transitions is proposed. In this comprehensive model, the EAM and MWC mechanisms become two pathways for allostery of the system, and thus their role can be quantitatively evaluated.
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men in developed countries. The gene that makes men grow into men is the androgen receptor (AR) and it is activated by testosterone. During embryonic development, testosterone signals through AR to make the prostate gland. The prostate gland is composed of two types of cells: basal cells (p63 positive) and luminal cells (AR positive). Most prostate cancers are androgen-dependent, meaning they need androgen to grow. However, in advanced stages of prostate cancer, the tumor can become androgen-independent and continues to grow even if androgen is removed. The CTNNB1 gene encodes the protein β-catenin, which is involved in embryonic development and is also important for normal prostate development. There is a need to better understand the role of β-catenin in prostate cancer development and progression. Currently, there is limited information about the role of β-catenin in human prostate cancer. In some studies, β-catenin expression is increased in late-stage cancer samples, while in other studies, β-catenin expression is decreased in advanced tumors. β-catenin is involved in the WNT signaling pathway and can also work with AR. In prostate cancer cell lines, β-catenin enhances AR transcriptional activation and increases sensitivity to low levels of androgens. In a prostate cancer xenograft model, β-catenin expression increases with castration resistance. Mice models show that activating β-catenin through a non-degradable form leads to prostate neoplasia and squamous transdifferentiation. PTEN is frequently altered in prostate cancer, with mutations and/or deletions found in 30% of primary cancers and 63% of metastatic prostate tumors. β-catenin can interact with the PI3K/Akt pathway following PTEN loss, through the inactivation of GSK3β and stabilization of β-catenin. Loss of Ctnnb1 in epithelia during mouse prostate development results in failure of bud outgrowth and branching. β-catenin expression is elevated after PTEN loss but plays no function in prostate cancer in intact or castrated animals. However, increasing the level of β-catenin in combination with PTEN deletion leads to highly invasive prostate tumors with persistent squamous metaplasia.
Informed consent is a vital part of ethical research. However, there are challenges in getting informed consent in developing countries. Researchers need to understand the social and cultural context of the community and potential research participants before seeking informed consent. The genetic study we conducted in southern Ethiopia aimed to determine the genetic basis of susceptibility to podoconiosis (non-filarial elephantiasis) using data from affected sibling pairs, their biological parents, and unaffected controls. We conducted a rapid assessment of the determinants and approaches to gaining informed consent for biomedical research in a predominantly rural Ethiopian population before starting the genetic study.
This paper is about understanding the dynamics and proliferation of T cells in the immune system. T cells are important for keeping our immune system running smoothly. They need to proliferate and differentiate to be able to fight against threats. Thymus plays an important role in producing these T cells, but aging and genetic factors can affect this process. To understand how T cells are produced and how they proliferate, the authors used a mathematical model that takes into account different phases of the cell cycle. They found that genetic and aging factors can affect the dynamics and proliferation of T cells in different ways. In particular, FVB mice have lower rates of T cell proliferation than C57BL/6 mice in both the thymus and spleen. Proliferation decreases with age in both strains. These results provide important information about how T cells work and how they are affected by genetic and aging factors.
The human body's cells have a tiny, circular DNA molecule inside their mitochondria, which codes for some of the proteins needed to make energy. These proteins are part of a machine called the electron transport chain (ETC), which uses energy from the food we eat to make ATP, the molecule that powers our cells. However, mutations (changes) in the mitochondrial DNA can cause the ETC to work improperly, leading to a drop in energy production and potentially causing diseases. In particular, mutations in the mitochondrial DNA's tRNA genes have been linked to a wide range of diseases, including hearing loss, eye diseases, heart disease, and muscle weakness. These mutations can cause problems with protein synthesis, which is needed to make the proteins of the ETC. However, when scientists try to study these mutations directly, they often don't see any decrease in protein synthesis. This can be puzzling, especially for mutations that are associated with partial penetrance, where not everyone with the mutation gets sick. In this paper, researchers have found a new mutation in a mouse's mitochondrial tRNA gene that causes a similar problem in protein synthesis. They also found that the mutation leads to higher levels of a molecule called reactive oxygen species (ROS), which can cause damage to cells. To compensate for this damage, the cells increase their production of new mitochondria. This increase in mitochondria helps to make up for the lower levels of protein synthesis, at least partially. The researchers conclude that this increase in mitochondria production can help to explain the partial penetrance of some tRNA mutations. They also suggest that this increase in mitochondria production might help to explain how some tRNA mutations can be inherited but not always cause disease. They call this phenomenon "functional epistasis." Overall, this paper is important because it helps us understand how mitochondrial tRNA mutations can lead to diseases and how some diseases can be inherited but not always cause problems. This knowledge could help scientists develop new treatments for these diseases.
Scientists are trying to understand how the balance of gene expression between chromosomes is maintained in humans. They are also trying to determine if there is a mechanism in humans that adjusts the balance of gene expression based on the number of active X chromosomes compared to autosomes. They used human triploid cells, which have three sets of chromosomes, to test their theories. Triploid cells have one X chromosome and two copies of the other chromosomes. If there is no change in autosomal expression in response to the number of X chromosomes, then the ratio of X chromosome to autosome expression should be 2:3 in cells with one active X chromosome and 1:3 in cells with two active X chromosomes. However, the researchers found that the ratio of X chromosome to autosome expression was not exactly 2:3 or 1:3, but was slightly adjusted based on the number of active X chromosomes compared to autosomes. This suggests that there may be an epigenetic adjustment in response to the X chromosome to autosome ratio. The researchers also found that genes with copies on both the X and Y chromosomes and genes that escape X inactivation were expressed differently in triploid cells with one active X chromosome compared to triploid cells with two active X chromosomes. Additionally, the researchers found that a small subset of X-linked genes appeared to respond to the cell ploidy, suggesting that dosage of these genes is critical.
The dN/dS ratio is a commonly used measure to understand natural selection acting on genetic sequences from different species. It compares the rate of substitutions at silent sites (dS) to the rate of substitutions at non-silent sites (dN), and is expected to exceed unity if natural selection promotes changes in the protein sequence, and less than unity if natural selection suppresses it. However, this statistic may not be accurate if the genetic sequences come from a single population, rather than divergent species. In this case, the relationship between dN/dS and selection pressure is different, and standard tests for selection based on dN/dS may be highly sensitive to this violation of the assumption of independent lineages. The expected dN/dS ratio within a population is relatively insensitive to selection pressure, and strong positive selection may even lead to dN/dS ratios near 1. As a result, the interpretation of dN/dS ratios near 1 in intra-specific samples is questionable and may lead to surprising conclusions, such as genetic drift dominating the evolution of a large-population bacterium.
Researchers have found that natural selection can affect the genetic diversity of different species. This is because selection can affect the diversity of nearby genetic regions that are linked to the selection. There are two types of selection that can affect diversity: selective sweeps and background selection. Selective sweeps happen when a neutral mutation is linked to a beneficial mutation and is quickly spread throughout the population. Background selection happens when purifying selection against harmful mutations also eliminates nearby neutral mutations. Evidence for the effects of natural selection on diversity have been found in humans, but it is less clear how it affects the diversity between different species. Researchers have found a correlation between genetic diversity and recombination rate and reduced diversity surrounding genes. They suggest that selection may be responsible for these patterns. However, it is thought that selection has a negligible effect when considering divergence between species with very long split times. Recent research has found that background selection can explain the variation in human-chimp neutral divergence across the genome. Researchers have also found that divergence between recently separated species pairs was reduced in regions of low recombination and in “islands of speciation.” They suggest that selection may be responsible for these patterns. However, the reduction in neutral diversity in the ancestral population is thought to have a negligible effect when considering divergence between distantly related species. A recent study by Hellmann et al. suggests that the positive correlation between human-baboon divergence and human recombination rate is due to mutagenic recombination, rather than selection at linked neutral sites. However, it is still unclear whether natural selection has a significant effect on divergence when considering distantly related species. Further research is needed to better understand the role of selection in genetic diversity.
The circadian clock is a system in organisms that regulates biological processes in a 24-hour cycle. In the fly Drosophila, the circadian clock is controlled by a feedback loop involving two proteins, Clock and Cycle. These proteins activate the expression of other genes, including Period (Per) and Timeless (Tim), which act as repressors of Clock and Cycle. This repression phase is also affected by other proteins that either activate or repress Clock and Cycle. The degradation of Per and Tim at dawn allows the expression of Clock and Cycle to resume, which leads to a new cycle of gene expression. The phosphorylation and ubiquitination of Per and Tim play important roles in this cycle. Recent research has focused on Clock, which appears to be the key rhythmic component of the circadian activator in Drosophila. The phosphorylation of Clock cycles with a peak in the morning and a minimum in the early night. This phosphorylation depends on both Clock and Cycle, but the exact role of Clock phosphorylation in the regulation of the circadian clock is still unclear. The phosphorylation of Clock by CK2 kinase is also important for its regulation, and recent research has identified CK2 as a bona fide kinase of Clock. The hyperphosphorylation of Clock by CK2 in vivo leads to its degradation, while the inhibition of CK2α activity stabilizes Clock. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of the circadian clock in Drosophila and may have implications for the development of therapies for sleep disorders and other diseases that are influenced by the circadian clock.
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and is spread to humans through the bite of infected insects. The parasite undergoes major morphological changes when it enters the insect's midgut, where it binds to the gut lining to prevent being flushed out during blood feeding. This study has found that the parasite protein cruzipain is involved in this binding process. This protein may also play a role in parasite development and survival within the insect vector. Drugs that target cruzipain may be effective in treating Chagas disease. The study used both antibodies and inhibitors of cysteine peptidases to investigate the role of cruzipain. The results suggest that cruzipain is essential for the parasite to bind to the gut lining of the insect vector.
The protein dynein is a motor that helps move things around inside cells, such as during cell division. It is composed of a heavy chain, as well as several smaller chains. In C. elegans, a single gene called dhc-1 encodes the heavy chain and is essential for cell division. A temperature-sensitive mutation in dhc-1 causes defects in meiosis, fertilization, and centrosome separation. To find other genes that are important for dynein function, the authors performed a genetic screen. They found 49 genes that, when reduced in function, suppressed the partial loss of heavy chain function in the dhc-1ts mutant. These genes are called dynein modifiers. Of the 49 dynein modifiers, 20 only suppress dynein mutants and not other types of mutants. Finally, the authors found that some of these dynein modifiers may overlap with the heavy chain in terms of their subcellular localization.
The study of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) and how they are repaired is important because these breaks can be toxic and can lead to chromosome rearrangements. Cells have two main ways to repair DSBs: homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). NHEJ is further divided into classical NHEJ (C-NHEJ) and an alternative end joining pathway (alt-NHEJ). During meiosis and immune response, programmed DSBs are created as part of the process. C-NHEJ is a critical step in repairing DSBs in these processes. The Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer is important for C-NHEJ, and it helps to protect DNA ends from resection and facilitates the synapsis of broken ends. The study found that development-specific KU genes are essential for programmed DSBs and PGR in Paramecium tetraurelia. The Ku70a/Ku80c heterodimer was found to interact functionally and physically with Pgm during PGR in P. tetraurelia.
Prion diseases are a group of neurodegenerative disorders that affect both humans and animals. These diseases are caused by the conversion of a normal protein to an infectious form, which leads to the accumulation of protease-resistant protein deposits in the brain. The protein conversion usually happens slowly over a long period of time, but changes in gene expression have been observed even before symptoms appear. Using a special technology called laser capture microdissection, we were able to isolate neurons from a specific area of the brain called the Cornu Ammonis layer in the hippocampus. By analyzing the gene expression in these neurons, we found that there is a bi-phasic molecular response to prion infection. This means that there is a protective mechanism that is up-regulated during the early stages of infection, but this protection is eventually lost as the disease progresses.
Scientists have developed a mathematical model that simulates how the immune system responds to an infection caused by the Leishmania parasite. The model uses a method called "stochastic Petri nets" to track the behavior of different types of immune cells in the liver of a mouse infected with Leishmania donovani. The model accurately reproduces many of the characteristics of infection observed in experiments with mice. Scientists used the model to investigate the role of a protein called interleukin-10 (IL-10) in regulating the immune response to the infection. The model suggests that IL-10 produced by infected macrophages, a type of immune cell, is the most important factor in regulating the immune response to the infection.
In this paper, the authors explore the idea of using simple mathematical models to understand how genes work and how they can be used in biotechnology. The authors use a computational model of gene regulation to show how genes can perform logical operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. They also show how genes can be used to perform more complex tasks, like tracking the mean and standard deviation of a signal and detecting statistically significant changes in that signal. The authors show that these types of operations can be performed with high accuracy and precision, even in the presence of noise and other biological factors that can affect gene expression. Overall, the paper shows that genes can be used as simple computational units that can be combined to perform complex functions, and that these functions can be controlled using mathematical models that take into account the properties of the underlying biochemical reactions.
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes fever and joint pain. It has three genotypes: West African, East/Central/South African, and Asian/Caribbean. The Asian/Caribbean genotype mostly affects humans, while the other two genotypes mainly affect non-human primates. The Asian/Caribbean genotype has caused outbreaks in several human populations, and the West African genotype has been detected in some Caribbean islands and South America. In Brazil, the East/Central/South African genotype has spread from Angola to the northeastern state of Bahia. There is evidence of coinfection of the Asian/Caribbean and East/Central/South African genotypes in some individuals. The East/Central/South African genotype has also spread northwards in Brazil around mid-2015.
Acquisition of DNA by horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) is a crucial mechanism by which bacteria increase genetic variability . The incorporation of foreign DNA can constitute a potential perturbation for the regulation of the core genome, resulting in a significant fitness cost . An efficient mechanism that enables the bacterial cell to control the expression of foreign DNA is exemplified by the H-NS protein. H-NS is a nucleoid-associated protein involved in the adaptative response of bacterial cells to changes in environmental factors such as temperature or osmolarity . The regulatory region of H-NS-modulated genes usually contains two separated target sequences, which have often been characterized by being AT-rich curved DNA stretches. Interaction of H-NS molecules with their target sequences results in protein oligomerization and the generation of a DNA loop. When this nucleoprotein complex is formed, transcription is switched off. Silencing is relieved when changes in physicochemical parameters affect either DNA properties or the capacity of H-NS to oligomerize. In some instances, H-NS-mediated silencing requires the participation of proteins of the Hha/YmoA family. Hha-like proteins have been identified on the basis of their role in modulating several virulence determinants. Their molecular mass is about half of that of H-NS-like proteins. They show structural mimicry to the H-NS oligomerization domain, bind to H-NS and appear to comodulate the expression of several genes with this latter protein. Mapping of H-NS binding sites on the Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium chromosome by a ChlP on chip approach showed that H-NS binds preferentially to AT-rich HGT DNA. This finding has led to the proposal of a predominant role of the H-NS protein as a genome sentinel. Several conjugative plasmids, such as those of the IncH1 group, also encode plasmidic forms of H-NS and Hha. IncH1 plasmids are common in the causal agent of typhoid fever, Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium, and are associated with the multi-drug resistance (MDR) phenotype that some isolates exhibit. A well-characterized representative of this incompatibility group is plasmid R27. This plasmid confers tetracycline resistance and shows a temperature-dependent conjugative phenotype. R27 encodes single copies of hns and hha genes (ORFs 164 and 182 respectively). Both chromosomally-encoded and plasmid-encoded H-NS and Hha proteins interact to modulate R27 temperature-dependent conjugative transfer. Plasmid-encoded H-NS provides a stealth function that allows the plasmid to be transmitted to new bacterial cells without reducing fitness. Plasmid-encoded H-NS would prevent the depletion of resident H-NS by AT-rich HGT sequences for which H-NS shows a strong preference. Chromosomally-encoded H-NS targets both HGT and core genomic DNA, but differentially modulates them by using Hha-like proteins to specifically silence HGT genes. In enteric bacteria, the H-NS modulator may have evolved to discriminate between vertically and horizontally inherited DNA sequences, efficiently silencing the latter. This feature could provide a fitness advantage by allowing the presence of a large number of silent virulence genes to be available, without interfering with the regulation of the bacterial core genome.
The study aims to understand the gene expression differences between Leishmania species during their infective amastigote stage. The study compares RNA expression profiles between the three sequenced Leishmania species (L. major, L. infantum, and L. braziliensis) using customized oligonucleotide arrays. The arrays contain target genes from four functional classes, including differentially distributed genes, genes with amino acid repeats, N-myristoylated proteins, and control genes with known expression profiles. The RNA expression profiles were analyzed from amastigotes isolated from footpad lesions (L. major), spleens (L. infantum), and RAW 264.7 macrophages (L. braziliensis). The study revealed that only a small number of target genes are differentially expressed at the mRNA level between species, and even fewer are regulated during the parasite life cycle. Moreover, the study suggests that host immune pressure has little effect on parasite gene expression at the RNA level. The findings suggest that any differences in virulence and pathogenicity between Leishmania species are likely to result from the differential expression of conserved genes between species and/or the expression of a small number of genes that are differentially distributed between species.
Amphimerus spp. are flatworms that live in the bile ducts of birds, reptiles, and mammals, and are related to Clonorchis and Opisthorchis. They can infect humans and cause a disease called amphimeriasis. Amphimeriasis has been reported in rural communities in the Pacific side of Ecuador. Humans can get infected by eating raw or undercooked freshwater fish. Amphimerus spp. eggs are shed in feces and can be seen under a microscope. However, microscopic examination can be difficult and time consuming, and it may not be sensitive enough for light infections. To overcome these limitations, molecular approaches have been developed, and one of them is loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP). This study developed and evaluated a LAMP assay for the specific detection of Amphimerus sp. in human stool samples. The assay was able to detect the presence of the parasite in the stool samples.
Macroautophagy (autophagy) is a process in which damaged or unnecessary parts of cells are broken down and recycled to be used by the cell again. During autophagy, the cell's membrane forms a sac-like structure called an autophagosome, which surrounds the parts of the cell that need to be broken down. The autophagosome then fuses with a lysosome, a sac-like organelle that contains digestive enzymes. This process allows the cell to break down the contents of the autophagosome and recycle them for use in other parts of the cell. This process requires a series of steps, including the fusion of two membranes. This process is made possible by several proteins that work together to allow the two membranes to fuse. One of these proteins is called Ykt6, which is important for the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes in the process of autophagy in larval fat cells. This process is not redundant with another protein called Vamp7, and Ykt6 and Vamp7 compete with each other for the same functions. Ykt6 is also important for the formation of a specific type of protein called a SNARE complex, which is necessary for the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes. The SNARE complex is made up of different types of proteins that are necessary for the process of fusion to occur. One of these proteins is called Syntaxin 17, which is important for the formation of a specific type of SNARE complex. Ykt6 also interacts with a protein called HOPS, which is important for the fusion of two membranes. In summary, Ykt6 is important for the formation of autophagosomes and for the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes. Ykt6 is not redundant with other proteins and it interacts with other important proteins in this process.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are naturally occurring immune defense molecules that target bacterial membranes, leading to bacterial cell death. Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) is a common bacterium that causes opportunistic infections in humans. To defend against AMPs, NTHI changes its outer membrane structure to resist their effects. The sap (sensitivity to antimicrobial peptides) operon is a system that helps NTHI defend against AMPs. Previously, we found that the sap system in NTHI is important for NTHI to survive in vivo. In this study, we found that NTHI lacking the ligand-binding protein SapA is directly susceptible to AMP exposure in the mammalian host. We also found that AMPs accumulate in the bacterial periplasm in a sap-permease deletion strain. Finally, we hypothesize that AMP import into the bacterial cytoplasm, coupled with cytoplasmic degradation, decreases AMP accumulation in the bacterial periplasm and protects the bacterium from subsequent perturbation of the bacterial cytoplasmic membrane.
The study explores the role of active degradation of proteins in bacteria. Active degradation involves ATP-dependent proteases, such as ClpXP, HflB, and Lon, which degrade misfolded proteins and functional proteins. This is an energy-costly process, but it can also play a regulatory role by modifying protein concentration. The study focuses on the multi-antibiotic resistance activator (MarA) in Escherichia coli, which has a short half-life due to Lon protease activity. MarA regulates over 60 downstream targets involved in antibiotic resistance roles. The study investigates the impact of MarA's half-life on generating coordinated diversity in multiple downstream genes. The study controls the half-life of MarA by modulating the concentration of Lon protease or by protecting MarA from proteolytic degradation. The study computes the maximum amount of coordinated diversity that MarA can achieve and the rate at which it achieves it. The study finds that MarA's short half-life plays a key role in generating coordinated diversity in multiple downstream genes, which is important for establishing synergistic effects between downstream targets.
Leishmania is a group of parasites that can cause a range of diseases in humans, from skin sores that heal on their own to fatal organ failure. To fight Leishmania infections, our bodies need a type 1 immune response, which includes the production of the cytokines IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2 by immune cells called CD4+ T cells. CD8+ T cells also play a role in controlling the infection. However, if our bodies don't produce enough type 1 immune response, Leishmania can survive and cause disease. This can happen if the parasites are able to suppress the immune response or if the body produces too much of a different type of immune response called a type 2 response. In this response, another cytokine called IL-4 is produced, which helps to activate immune cells called macrophages, but also promotes an alternative type of activation that can make the macrophages more hospitable to Leishmania. A protein called MKP-2 plays a role in controlling the immune response to Leishmania. Studies have shown that MKP-2 deficient mice, which lack MKP-2, are more susceptible to infection with Leishmania mexicana, but not Leishmania major. However, it was not clear how MKP-2 deficiency affects the immune response to Leishmania major, which causes a milder infection in humans. In this study, the authors infected MKP-2 deficient and wild-type mice with Leishmania major and found that both groups had a similar response. The type 1 immune response was down-regulated in both groups, but the type 2 response was also suppressed in both groups. The authors also found that MKP-2 deficient macrophages were more permissive host cells for Leishmania major than wild-type macrophages, but if the macrophages were classically activated, they were equally effective at controlling the infection. The authors suggest that MKP-2 deficiency does not make mice more susceptible to Leishmania major infections.
The pancreas is a branched organ that secretes digestive enzymes into the duodenum and regulates blood glucose levels. The pancreas forms from a group of cells that grow and form a plexus of ducts. These ducts then become more treelike as they remodel, forming a ramified network. By digitizing the ductal network at different stages of development, we found that it has stereotypic traits at each stage and that its remodeling can be quantified. We also created a simple model that describes how the pancreatic ductal network forms and remodels.
Kinesins are a group of motor proteins found in all living organisms that move along microtubules using energy from ATP. Researchers have found 13 different types of kinesins in humans. These motor proteins play important roles in moving organelles, organizing the cytoskeleton, and segregating genetic material during cell division. The basic structure of kinesins is made up of a motor domain and a neck linker region. These structures have been studied using a number of techniques, including X-ray crystallography, cryo-electron microscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Researchers have found that the motor domain has several important regions, including the nucleotide-binding site and the microtubule-binding site. They have also found that the neck linker region has a docking site that interacts with the microtubule. Some studies suggest that the neck linker is docked to the microtubule when ATP is bound, and is undocked when ATP is hydrolyzed to ADP. Researchers have used computer simulations to study the structure and dynamics of kinesin motor domains. They have found that the nucleotide-binding site changes conformation when ATP is bound, and that the microtubule-binding site changes conformation in response to the change in the nucleotide-binding site. They have also found that the neck linker region changes conformation in response to changes in the nucleotide-binding site and the microtubule-binding site. Overall, the computer simulations have provided new insights into the structure and dynamics of kinesin motor domains.
Bioluminescence is produced by a group of genes known as the lux operon. These genes are found in all bioluminescent bacteria and are responsible for the light-emitting reaction. The lux operon includes genes for the α and β subunits of luciferase, a fatty acid reductase, an acyl transferase, and an acylprotein synthetase. These proteins work together to convert a long chain fatty aldehyde to its cognate acid, which results in the emission of blue-green light. This reaction is regulated by the lux operon. The lux operon can be used as a reporter to measure gene expression, as changes in gene expression can be reflected in changes in bioluminescence. However, this light is an integrated signal of transcription, mRNA half-life, translation, protein turnover, bioluminescence reaction kinetics, and substrate availability and cycling. Therefore, absolute transcription activity cannot be directly inferred from the data generated. This is a limitation in the current use of Lux technologies. In this paper, the authors present a new mathematical model that addresses limitations of previous work and provides a better understanding of the bioluminescence reaction. This model allows for the simultaneous inference of all parameters in complex kinetic models, which is an advantage over traditional chemical kinetics techniques. The authors used Photorhabdus luminescens LuxAB to generate new enzymatic data for the Fre reaction and the LuxAB reaction. They also used time series experimental data to fit the models directly to the data, which is a (partial) factorial experiment with varying concentrations of both FMN and NADPH. This allowed for the simultaneous inference of all parameters in complex kinetic models, which is an advantage over traditional chemical kinetics techniques.
HFMD is a viral infection that affects the nervous system, caused by enterovirus 71 or CVA16. It can lead to serious complications, including death. There is currently no vaccine or drug available to treat the infection. The authors have found that a compound called GPP3 can bind to the virus and prevent it from infecting a host. The compound is able to replace a molecule that the virus needs to infect a host, and is therefore an effective antiviral agent. The authors have also shown that other compounds have a similar binding mode and are effective against a wide range of enteroviruses.
The study focuses on the role of lipophorin receptors (LpR1 and LpR2) in the Toll-mediated immune response of Drosophila. The role of these receptors in necrotic (nec) processing was investigated by dsRNA-knockout. The study shows that Nec is taken up by LpR1 in garland and pericardial cells, probably as a serpin/proteinase complex. Antibody staining against different proteins involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and intracellular trafficking establishes that Nec is sorted and degraded in the garland and pericardial athrocytes, but not recycled to the haemolymph. The study also indicates that these cells do not recycle endocytotic components, but are the site of protein and peptide degradation.
The left-right (LR) asymmetry in internal organs is common among bilaterian organisms. While the mechanisms for initial symmetry breaking vary across different vertebrates, the common outcome is the expression of nodal, a transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) ligand, on the left side. The Nodal pathway not only regulates LR asymmetry in vertebrates but also controls the formation of the left-sided adult rudiment in sea urchins and body chirality in snails. Right-sided bone morphogenic protein (BMP) opposes left-sided Nodal and is involved in LR patterning. BMP is expressed symmetrically in the skeletogenic micromeres of sea urchin embryos, but BMP signaling is asymmetrically activated in the left coelom-derived hydroporic canal. BMP signaling is required for left-sided structure development and the expression of several left-sided marker genes. Right-sided Nodal signaling restricts BMP activity and is involved in the asymmetrical separation and apoptosis of the skeletogenic micromeres. Overall, this study provides new insights into the role of the BMP pathway in LR patterning in sea urchin embryos.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a common virus that can cause serious illnesses in people with weakened immune systems and newborns. As with all herpesviruses, HCMV can exist in two states: a latent, asymptomatic state or a replicative state that leads to the lysis of the host cell. Reactivation from latency is accomplished by mechanisms that desilence the MIE promoter/enhancer. The initial step in HCMV replication is MIE gene expression, which is considered a prime target for antivirals. It has been shown that the cell cycle state at the onset of infection determines whether viral gene expression is initiated or not. For primary fibroblasts, IE gene expression starts immediately in G0/G1, while in S/G2 phase, transcription of IE1 and IE2 is efficiently suppressed. However, infection of S/G2 fibroblasts does not fully prevent but rather delays the onset of the lytic cycle until cells have completed cell division and reentered the next G1 phase. It is not clear what makes S/G2 cells non-permissive for MIE gene expression and whether the underlying mechanism also plays a role in the establishment of HCMV latency. In this study, we analyzed the molecular determinants of cell cycle dependent repression of HCMV major IE genes. We found that inhibition of cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) activity either by checkpoint activation or the chemical inhibitor roscovitine was sufficient to fully restore virus permissiveness in S/G2. Moreover, CDK inhibition was also successful in antagonizing the silencing of lytic gene expression during quiescent, latent-like infection of undifferentiated NTera2 (NT2) cells, suggesting a mechanistical link between cell cycle and latency-associated repression of IE gene transcription.
The human immune system is capable of controlling HIV-1 infection in a small number of individuals known as elite controllers. These individuals have an effective T cell immune response against HIV-1 and maintain undetectable levels of viral replication without antiretroviral therapy. However, it is not clear why such immune responses occur only in a few individuals and what mechanisms support their development. One possible mechanism is the role of dendritic cells (DCs), which are the most effective naturally-occurring antigen-presenting cells. Recent discoveries have shown that cDCs are generally able to generate IFN-I responses to HIV-1, but HIV-1 is able to escape from such cell-intrinsic immunity in most patients. This may be due to the expression of SAMHD1, a host protein that blocks HIV-1 reverse transcription. In the present study, the authors have found that unlike chronic progressors, DCs from elite controllers are able to effectively mount cell-intrinsic type I IFN secretion in response to HIV-1 infection. This is likely due to an accumulation of viral reverse transcripts that serve as substrates for the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS. Recognition of these early viral replication products in elite controllers seemed to be facilitated by an enhanced upregulation of cGAS, leading to rapid and sustained secretion of type I IFNs. This type of immune recognition is likely functionally relevant for supporting effective HIV-1-specific CD8 T cell responses. The authors suggest that this study provides previously unrecognized innate mechanisms of HIV-1 immune recognition that contribute to T cell-mediated immune control of HIV-1.
Obesity is a problem that happens when we take in more energy than our bodies need. The process of how energy is stored or used in our bodies is very complicated and happens between different tissues in our bodies. The storage of energy happens when energy is put into our cells as fat, and the use of energy happens when that fat is broken down to make energy. It is not clear how our bodies know when to store energy and when to use it. Scientists think that the fruit fly, Drosophila, is a good model for studying how fat is stored and used in our bodies. Drosophila larvae feed a lot and they need to use the energy they take in to grow their bodies. They also store the energy in their fat bodies, which are like an organ that is made of fat. The larvae will use the energy stored in their fat bodies during a time when they are not eating, like when they are pupating. Scientists have done genetic screens to try to find out which genes are important for fat storage. In this study, they did a genetic screen on Drosophila larvae to find out which genes are important for fat storage. They found 66 genes that might be important for fat storage in the larvae. They also looked at one of these genes, Sir2, to see if it was important for fat storage in different parts of the larvae. They found that Sir2 was important for fat storage in the fat body and in the brain. They also found that Sir2 mutants had a survival advantage when they were not eating.
This study aimed to understand how the spindle moves during the first embryonic cell division in different species of nematodes. The spindle movements are important because they determine the size and fate of the two daughter cells. The study used DIC microscopy to analyze the process in 42 Caenorhabditis and non-Caenorhabditis nematode species. The results showed that the spindle movements vary among species, even within the same genus as Caenorhabditis elegans. The variations in the spindle movements were unrelated to variations in cell size and did not predict the degree of cell asymmetry. The study found that spindle oscillations constituted an evolutionary innovation at the base of the Caenorhabditis genus. Overall, the study provides a detailed quantitative description of subcellular traits that could be reused to investigate other evolutionary aspects of cell and developmental processes.
The article discusses the OmpR DNA binding protein in Gram-negative bacteria and its potential role in regulating gene expression. The article explains that OmpR has low specificity for its DNA targets and can bind to new sites easily. It also points out that OmpR is sensitive to changes in the topology of its DNA target, which can be affected by various environmental stressors. The article mentions that the OmpR/EnvZ regulatory system is important in the osmotic stress response of E. coli and that S. Typhimurium uses this system to adapt to the acidic environment in the stomach and the vacuole of the host macrophage. The article concludes that OmpR plays an important role in infection in S. Typhimurium and that its activity is regulated differently in this bacterium and E. coli.
In this article, the authors focus on a protein called CT737 found in Chlamydia trachomatis, a bacteria that causes a variety of diseases including infertility and blindness. The protein has a unique domain called SET that is found in proteins that change the expression of genes found in our DNA. However, bacteria do not have the target for this protein, which is DNA. Instead, CT737 targets histone proteins, which are tightly packed in the nucleus of our cells and regulate gene expression. CT737 is secreted by the bacteria and found in our cells' nucleus, where it modifies the histone proteins and plays a critical role in compacting bacterial DNA. This study is the first to identify a nuclear effector in chlamydiae and proposes that it be called NUE.
Height is a complex trait that is influenced by both genetic and non-genetic factors. Recent studies have found that 80-90% of the variation in height is explained by genetic factors. The genetic architecture of height has been studied using genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and other methods. While these studies have discovered common genetic variants associated with height, they have not explained all of the variation. A study was done to investigate whether genome-wide homozygosity, which is a measure of the number of identical copies of genes inherited from both parents, was associated with height. The study involved over 35,000 subjects from 21 population samples, and found that there was a significant inverse association between genome-wide homozygosity and height. This finding suggests that recessive genetic effects, which occur when the effects of two copies of a gene are opposite or opposite in direction, may play a role in determining height. However, the authors caution that the findings need to be replicated in other studies before they can be conclusively stated as true.
This study examines the role of monocytes (MO) in the fight against malaria infections. Monocytes are a type of white blood cell that can kill malaria parasites and can also activate other cells that help fight the infection. The study found that there are different types of monocytes, and the balance between these different types varies among people with malaria. The study also found that the function of monocytes during malaria infections can affect how well the infection is controlled. Overall, this study provides important information about how monocytes play a vital role in the fight against malaria infections.
The paper highlights that HIV is a major public health crisis, with 2.3 million new infections and 1.6 million HIV-related deaths in 2013. Most of the new infections (70%) occurred in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) and the predominant mode of transmission is heterosexual sex. The likelihood of transmission during a single sexual exposure is low, and this is due to the fact that the genital mucosa presents a significant barrier to infection. Additionally, HIV infects CD4+ T cells, which are present in several subsets, such as Th17, Th1, and Th22 cells. These subsets are particularly susceptible to HIV infection, and are also selectively depleted early in HIV infection. The availability of these CD4+ T cells in the genital mucosa may determine whether exposure to HIV results in infection. The paper notes that infections such as Helminthic infections and Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) increase the frequency of activated CD4+ T cells in the cervical mucosa of women, which may contribute to increased HIV susceptibility. The paper also mentions that Schistosoma mansoni, a parasitic worm that causes a chronic gastrointestinal infection, is very common in fishing communities and may contribute to increased HIV susceptibility by altering the mucosal immune response.
Researchers have found that removing Wolbachia bacteria from filarial nematodes (which are parasitic worms) causes the worms to die. This is because Wolbachia are needed to help these worms develop and reproduce. When Wolbachia are removed, the worms undergo apoptosis, which is a process where cells die. This happens to both cells that had Wolbachia before and cells that didn't have Wolbachia. The worms' cytoskeleton (which is like a scaffolding that helps cells keep their shape) is also affected. Overall, removing Wolbachia has a big impact on the structure and function of the worm's cells and could be a way to treat certain types of parasites.
Scientists are trying to find new ways to fight malaria, which is caused by a parasite that needs a special ingredient called vitamin B5 to survive. This ingredient is taken up by the parasite from our blood and turned into another ingredient that the parasite needs to survive. The scientists are looking for ways to stop the parasite from getting this ingredient, which would stop it from surviving and cause malaria to go away. They have found some ingredients that might work, but they are not sure how they work. The scientists found some parasites that are resistant to these ingredients, and they looked at the genetic code of these parasites to figure out why they were resistant. They found that the parasites had mutations in a gene that codes for an ingredient the parasite needs to survive. They then did experiments to show that this ingredient is important for the parasite to survive and that the mutations they found make the parasite resistant to the ingredients they found. They also found that the ingredients they found have at least two ways of working, which make the parasite resistant to the ingredients. They also found that the ingredients they found need to be changed in a certain way before they work, which makes them resistant to the ingredients. Overall, the scientists found a new way to fight malaria that might work better than the way we fight it now.
The electrocardiogram (ECG) measures the electrical activity of the heart through electrodes placed on the skin. The PR interval represents the time it takes for the electrical signal to travel from the atria to the ventricles of the heart, and longer PR intervals are associated with an increased risk of heart disease. Genetic factors are thought to play a significant role in PR interval variation, and a previous study found that about 30-50% of the PR interval variation is due to genetic factors. The current study aims to replicate previous findings of genetic associations with PR interval in African Americans. The study included 6,247 African Americans from four different cohorts in the Candidate-gene Association Resource (CARe) consortium, which includes the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study, the Cleveland Family Study (CFS), the Jackson Heart Study (JHS), and the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). The study also attempted to replicate the genome-wide significant associations in 2,022 African Americans from the Health ABC and HANDLS studies.
This article describes the process of positive-strand RNA virus replication. These viruses have a single-stranded RNA genome that is translated into viral proteins, including replication proteins. These proteins recruit the genomic RNA to intracellular membranes and synthesize complementary negative-strand RNA. The negative-strand RNA is used as a template for the synthesis of positive-strand RNA (genomic and subgenomic) that is released into the cytosol. The membrane-bound complexes that synthesize the positive-strand RNA are called replication complexes. The article also discusses the role of host factors in the viral RNA replication process, including molecular chaperones, translation elongation factors, reticulon homology proteins, and ESCRT proteins. Additionally, the article describes how some viruses modulate the function of host proteins to facilitate viral RNA replication, and how different viruses have different mechanisms for RNA replication. Finally, the article introduces two experimental systems that enable biochemical analyses of the replication of tobamovirus RNA, including translation and replication in evacuolated plant cell extract (BYL) and purification of active tobamovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The article concludes with a discussion of the crucial roles of two host proteins, TOM1 and an unidentified protein of approximately 20 kDa, in the process of activating the replication proteins' essential functions.
The article introduces two types of inhibitory circuits in the central nervous system (CNS) of living organisms, namely feed-forward (FF) and feedback (FB) inhibition. FB inhibition involves a population of excitatory neurons driving an inhibitory neuron, which in turn inhibits the same population of excitatory neurons. FF inhibition involves excitatory neurons exciting an inhibitory neuron, which then inhibits a group of postsynaptic excitatory neurons outside of the initializing excitatory neurons' area. While both types of inhibition limit the firing of the postsynaptic neurons, they have different properties. FF inhibition can completely block action potentials in the post-synaptic excitatory neurons, while FB inhibition is well suited to synchronize firing in populations of excitatory principal neurons. Sparse stimulus representations can arise through either FF or FB inhibitory motifs. Both FF and FB inhibitory motifs exist in the honeybee and mammal mushroom body (MB), but there is a debate over whether FF or FB inhibition is the main source of inhibition in the MB. Recent results in the fly and locust support the existence of FB inhibition in the MB, while refuting the existence of FF inhibition. The article then presents two computational models of the locust olfactory system that implement FF and FB inhibition, respectively. In both models, inhibition is mediated by the GGN neuron, which receives excitatory input from all KCs and inhibits all KCs. The study reveals important differences between the effects of FF and FB inhibition on circuit dynamics, which can be evaluated based on electrophysiological recordings. These differences can be used to probe the connectivity structures of unexplored biological circuits.
Rabies is a deadly disease caused by a virus that affects the brain and can be transmitted from animals to humans. The virus can be spread by a bite, scratch or lick from an infected animal. Rabies virus, or RABV, is the most common cause of human rabies. There are other viruses that can cause rabies, including Lagos bat virus, Mokola virus, and Australian bat lyssavirus. Some of these viruses have only been found in bats, suggesting that the virus may have originated in bats. There are different types of rabies virus that are adapted to different animal species, and they can vary in their genetic makeup. The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Organization for Animal Health (OIE) have designated the fluorescent antibody test (FAT) as the reference method for post-mortem diagnosis of rabies in animals. However, there are also many molecular methods available for intra-vitam diagnosis of human rabies, such as reverse transcription (RT) -PCR and real-time RT-qPCR. These methods are able to detect all representatives of the RABV genus, but none of them can detect other lyssaviruses. We developed a new one-step pan-lyssavirus detection technique that uses a dual combined real-time reverse-transcription PCR assay (combo RT-qPCR). This assay includes a pan-RABV RT-qPCR probe-based technique that can detect all representatives of the broad genetic diversity of RABV, using two degenerate TaqMan probes. In addition, a SYBR Green RT-qPCR assay is carried out in parallel, which can detect all lyssaviruses, including some RABV isolates. This combo RT-qPCR assay has high sensitivity and specificity and can be used for post-mortem or intra-vitam diagnosis of human rabies. It has been evaluated in two national reference laboratories in enzootic countries, where its utility and efficacy for rabies diagnosis and surveillance have been demonstrated.
This article discusses the problem of tsetse flies and the diseases they transmit in West Africa. Tsetse flies are still present in rural areas, despite efforts to control them. These flies can feed on livestock, leading to a disease called African animal trypanosomiasis. In some rural areas, people rely on livestock for food and income. However, if African animal trypanosomiasis affects their livestock, their food and income sources can be at risk. A recent outbreak of African animal trypanosomiasis in Ghana highlights the importance of controlling tsetse flies. In this article, the authors propose an intervention in Ghana to control tsetse flies by surrounding pigsties with insecticide-treated mosquito nets (ITNs). The authors hope that this intervention will reduce the number of tsetse flies and the risk of African animal trypanosomiasis in pigs. They will collect data on the number of tsetse flies and the risk of African animal trypanosomiasis before and after the intervention to measure its effectiveness.
Many scientists have been concerned that some published research cannot be replicated [1]. Studies using animals and basic molecules have shown that a significant portion of published research does not have replicable results [2]. This may be due to a lack of transparency in research [5]. To address this problem, there has been a growing movement to make research protocols, analytical codes, and data publicly available [6–8]. In this study, we aimed to examine the status of reproducibility and transparency in a random sample of published biomedical journal articles. We looked at several factors that are believed to be important to monitor in terms of reproducibility and transparency, such as the proportion of studies sharing their protocols and raw data, whether they underwent rigorous independent replication and reproducibility checks, and whether they reported any conflicts of interest or sources of public and/or private funding.
The bacterium Yersinia pestis has caused three major pandemics in history, including the "Black Death" of the Middle Ages. It can be transmitted from person to person via respiratory droplets, resulting in the deadliest form of the disease, primary pneumonic plague. This condition has a nearly 100% mortality rate within a few days of infection. Y. pestis can be used as a bioterrorism weapon due to its extreme lethality and history of weaponization. In our study, we used a mouse infection model to examine the progression of primary pneumonic plague and identified two distinct phases of the disease. The first phase, called "pre-inflammatory," is marked by rapid bacterial replication in the lung in the absence of host immune responses. The second phase, called "pro-inflammatory," is characterized by extensive neutrophil influx, a massive cytokine storm, and considerable tissue destruction in the lung. In both mice and humans, progressing into the pro-inflammatory phase inevitably leads to death without immediate treatment. Our study found that Y. pestis creates a unique protective environment in the lungs of mice, allowing the growth of typically avirulent organisms. This suggests that Y. pestis suppresses host immune responses in the lung early during infection. We identified the host cells targeted by Y. pestis during primary pneumonic plague using a type III secretion system to deliver effector proteins to the cytosol of target cells. Our results show that Y. pestis primarily targets macrophages and neutrophils early during the pre-inflammatory phase of disease. We also monitored the host cell dynamics in the lung in response to Y. pestis challenge and found that neutrophils are ultimately responsible for the severe necrotizing pneumonia during the pro-inflammatory disease phase. This study is the first to identify and evaluate the host cells targeted by fully virulent Y. pestis in the lung, providing insight into the dynamic events occurring shortly after pulmonary exposure to this highly lethal pathogen.
The global number of new human cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is estimated to be around 500,000 per year. Brazil has one of the highest rates of VL cases in the world, with the metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte, in the state of Minas Gerais, being affected recently. During the last decade, VL cases have been reported in Brazilian large cities. To control this disease, early diagnosis and treatment are essential. VL induces a strong B cell activation resulting in hypergammaglobulinemia. Antibody-detection tests are commonly used to confirm suspected cases of clinical VL. Most soluble antigens used for ELISA assays are derived from promastigotes of different species of Leishmania cultivated in vitro, especially L. amazonensis, which can be easily grown under in vitro conditions. However, there is no standard test for diagnosing asymptomatic VL infections. Some researchers have used molecular biology techniques, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) alone or in combination with hybridization to confirm the diagnosis of VL in suspect cases. The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the performance of ELISA assays, using L. infantum and L. amazonensis promastigote crude antigens and rK39 recombinant protein, compared to PCR and hybridization to diagnose asymptomatic VL infection in participants from a cohort study with a two-year follow-up period.
The study is focused on understanding how different types of repetitive elements are silenced in germ cells and stem cells. Repetitive elements are segments of DNA that are repeated many times in the genome. These elements can be divided into 16 different classes, with the most common being long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons, simple repeats, DNA transposons, and long interspersed elements (LINEs). Some of these repetitive elements are silenced in a transcriptional manner by using DNA methylation, histone modifications, or a combination of these factors. The study uses data from gene expression profiling of embryonic stem (ES) cells to identify which repetitive elements are silenced. They find that certain retrotransposons are differentially regulated by DNA methylation, while others are regulated by histone modifications. They also identify which histone modifications are required to silence certain retrotransposons. The study also finds that different copies of the same retrotransposon can be differentially regulated, with some being sensitive to loss of certain silencing mechanisms. They suggest that this can be caused by differences in the sequence of the elements. Overall, this study provides insight into how different types of repetitive elements are silenced in germ cells and stem cells, and how this can be influenced by differences in the sequence of the elements.
Cryptochromes are important photoreceptors that regulate plant development and the circadian clock. Two types of cryptochromes have been identified in Arabidopsis, CRY1 and CRY2. CRY1 and CRY2 have different functions, but they both have the ability to regulate the circadian clock and flowering in response to blue light. In this study, researchers identified a new protein called CIB1, which interacts with CRY2 and promotes flowering. The researchers also found three other CIB proteins, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5, which also interact with CRY2 and promote flowering. These proteins work together to regulate flowering in response to blue light.
The CDC began presumptive treatment programs for refugees arriving in the United States in 1999. The programs included a single dose of albendazole for intestinal nematodes (worms) to all refugees departing from Asia and Africa and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for anti-malarial treatment among refugees departing from sub-Saharan Africa. In 2005, the recommendations were expanded to include either ivermectin or a 7-day course of albendazole for Strongyloides stercoralis infections. However, because of funding and logistic issues for procuring and delivering ivermectin, it has only been used in a pilot program. The full CDC guidelines are available at: www.cdc.gov/immigrantrefugeehealth/guidelines/refugee-guidelines.html. The prevalence of helminth infection was estimated to be 18.6% among Asian refugees according to stool ova and parasite testing prior to the implementation of CDC’s presumptive treatment program. Serologic testing of Asian refugees in the United States have also identified high rates (>20%) of Strongyloides infections. Although Ascaris, Trichuris, and hookworm infections are likely to self-resolve within 1 to 6 years after arrival, Strongyloides infections are likely to persist for many years after arrival. Previously published work suggested that presumptive treatment of immigrants from high-burden countries with albendazole and ivermectin is cost-effective. However, these earlier studies had limited data on the burden of disease in these populations and were out-of-date because of the changing cost of interventions and testing. Newly available data allow for more accurate estimates of the burden and consequences of these infections in refugee populations. We also have detailed cost estimates for overseas programs from ongoing or pilot programs. These new data can be used to quantify the economic impact of CDC’s presumptive treatment recommendations for Asian refugees, both the proposed but largely unimplemented use of ivermectin and the already-implemented albendazole. We selected the Asian refugee population for this study to focus on albendazole and ivermectin. The African refugee population was excluded from the analysis because they also receive praziquantel for schistosomiasis and coartem for malaria. However, an analysis of presumptive treatment of African refugees with albendazole and ivermectin is included in the appendix. Our analytic objective was to quantify and compare the benefits and costs of overseas presumptive treatment with domestic screening and treatment programs and no intervention for intestinal parasitoses. The conditions included in the analysis were infections with Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, hookworm, and Strongyloides stercoralis. Per CDC guidelines, domestic screening (stool samples + serology for Strongyloides) is unnecessary for refugees that receive presumptive treatment overseas unless they present with clinical symptoms or persistent eosinophilia.
A new species of microsporidia was found infecting non-intestinal tissues of a wild-caught Caenorhabditis elegans animal. The new species has a broader tissue tropism compared to other Nematocida species identified to date and infects a wide array of tissues and cell types, including the intestine, epidermis, muscle, neurons, and specialized phagocytic cells called coelomocytes. However, the majority of intestinal infection fails to replicate. The new species' genome contains an enormously expanded species-specific gene family encoding for RING-domain containing proteins of unknown function, which may explain its distinct infection life cycle.
Cockayne syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that causes developmental and neurological problems, sun sensitivity, and premature aging. It is caused by mutations in a gene called CSB (Cockayne syndrome complementation group B), which is important for DNA repair and transcription regulation. CSB is a type of protein called SNF2/SWI2 ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler. It can reposition nucleosomes, which are the basic units of DNA packaging, and this activity is greatly enhanced by certain types of proteins called NAP1-like histone chaperones. CSB and these chaperones work together to establish a chromatin environment that is conducive for DNA repair and/or transcription resumption after repair.
Scientists have been studying how our genetic information differs from one person to another for quite a while now. However, they have recently discovered that our epigenetic information, such as DNA methylation levels, also vary among individuals. This study used data from five different human cell types to identify regions of common epigenetic variation. These regions, called variably methylated regions, contain hundreds of loci that show highly variable DNA methylation levels. The study found that these regions co-localize with other functional genomic features and are enriched for CpGs that influence gene expression. The study also provides evidence that environmental factors play a role in shaping the epigenome. By looking at how methylation levels at these regions change in response to the environment, the study sheds new light on the relationship between our genetic information, the environment, and our health.
Dengue is a viral infection that affects millions of people worldwide. It is caused by a group of four different viruses and is primarily transmitted by mosquitoes. The disease can range from a mild fever to a potentially deadly condition called Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever and Dengue Shock Syndrome. There is no cure for the disease, but there are diagnostic tools available to help doctors identify it early, such as a dengue NS1 detection test. This test can be done quickly and requires minimal technical expertise, making it a useful tool in areas where medical resources are limited. The test has been evaluated in two separate study sites in Southeast Asia and has shown promising results in helping doctors identify dengue cases.
RNA molecules play a variety of roles in cellular processes, such as translation. RNA structure is crucial for its function in the cell. RNA structure can be predicted from the sequence using computational methods. However, these methods cannot predict the entire folding pathway or the structure of transient structures. The program RNAkinetics can simulate the folding of an emerging RNA sequence, taking into account co-transcriptional folding. The program Kinefold can model the kinetic folding pathway for a given sequence. Kinefold can also model dynamic transcription speeds. The programs Kinwalker and Transat are used for studying RNA folding pathways in vivo.
This study focuses on the function of specific genes in a plant immune signaling network. It is known that non-additive interactions between genes can affect their function. This study aims to quantify these interactions to understand the overall network function of plant immune signaling. It is important to understand these interactions because mutations in specific genes may have unexpected effects on the immune response. The study uses a plant pathogen, the bacterium Pseudomonas syringae, and the plant hormones jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET). The study uses a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques to understand how these hormones interact in the immune response. The study concludes that network interactions are important in the immune response, and that the buffering of gene function is crucial for the overall network function. It also highlights the limitations of using mutant analysis to understand complex biological networks like the immune response.
Scientists have studied how the fruit fly's visual system develops and how it is patterned during embryogenesis. They found that the visual system develops from a small area called the optic placode, which forms in the head of the embryo. The placode is made up of cells that can become either photoreceptor (PR) neurons or non-PR neurons. The cells that become PR neurons are divided into two types: primary and secondary. The scientists found that a protein called Atonal (Ato) helps promote the formation of primary PR neurons, while the protein Tailless (Tll) helps maintain non-PR cells. The scientists also found that Hedgehog (Hh) and Notch signaling are important during early patterning of the optic lobe. The Hh protein is needed for the development of many different types of cells, while Notch prevents cells from becoming neurons. The scientists also found that Ato is initially expressed in all PR neuron precursors in the placode, but its expression gets progressively restricted to primary PR neuron precursors. They also found that primary PR neuron precursors recruit secondary precursors using a protein called Spitz, which is produced by primary precursors. After that, other proteins like Senseless, Spalt, Seven-up, and Orthodenticle help determine which type of PR neurons will form. The scientists also found that tll and ato expression mark different domains of the optic placode: tll is expressed in cells that will form the optic lobe, while ato is expressed in cells that will form the larval eye precursors. They found that tll regulates ato expression, and that Notch represses ato expression by promoting tll expression. They also found that Hh signaling regulates cell number in the optic placode and controls PR subtype specification in an ato- and sens-dependent manner. Finally, they found that Notch has two distinct roles in larval eye development: it initially represses ato expression by promoting tll expression, and later it represses sens expression to control the binary cell fate decision of primary versus secondary PR precursors. In summary, the scientists found a network of genetic interactions that pattern neuroepithelial cells of the optic placode and ensure timely specification of neuronal subtypes during development.
The innate immune system is the body's first line of defense against infection from microbes. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are small molecules that are part of the innate immune system and help protect the human body from bacterial overgrowth. They shape the microbiota, which is the collection of microorganisms that live inside the body, and help keep them in balance. One type of AMP is called defensins, which are small cationic peptides with disulfide-bonds. There are two types of defensins: alpha-defensins and beta-defensins. These defensins are important for fighting off bacteria and viruses. One beta-defensin in particular, hBD1, is important for innate immunity because it is constitutively expressed in all human epithelia. In this study, we used electron microscopy to observe how hBD1, which is reduced in the human intestine, affects the structure of bacteria. We found that hBD1red forms a net-like structure around bacteria, which helps to inhibit their growth. We also found that hBD1ox, which has three closed disulfide bonds, does not have this net-like structure and does not have the same effect on bacteria. This study shows that hBD1 provides distinct and complementary killing-based and killing-independent antimicrobial mechanisms, supporting its diverse and important role in shaping the microbiota.
Lowe syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that causes cataracts, mental retardation, and kidney problems. It's caused by a mutation in a gene called OCRL1, which is involved in endocytosis, the process by which cells absorb nutrients and other substances from their environment. The zebrafish model has been generated to better understand the disease mechanisms of Lowe syndrome. The model has shown that endocytosis in the kidney is impaired, which may cause kidney problems. The model also shows that OCRL1 is required for efficient endocytosis in vivo, and supports the hypothesis that endocytic defects give rise to the renal manifestations of Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease.
Rift Valley Fever (RVF) is a mosquito-borne illness that affects both humans and animals. It occurs in cycles of 5 to 15 years in Eastern Africa and the Horn of Africa. It is caused by the Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV), a member of the genus Phlebovirus in the family Bunyaviridae. In humans, RVF can cause mild illness or severe illness. The disease is an occupational hazard for people in close contact with infected animals, such as livestock keepers, abattoir workers, laboratory workers, veterinarians, and others. In recent years, evidence of RVF transmission during the inter-epidemic periods has been reported in some parts of Africa. To investigate potential inter-epidemic period transmission of RVF in an area experiencing seasonal floods annually, we conducted a study in Morogoro region of Tanzania, where the Kilombero River valley is located. Our goal was to establish baseline information on the exposure status to RVF in livestock and assess the relationship between RVF seropositivity, animal characteristics, and environmental factors.
The contractile vacuole complex (CVC) is a structure in some protists that stores water and helps regulate the amount of water in the cell. T. cruzi, which causes Chagas disease, has a CVC. T. cruzi cells can shrink or expand based on the amount of water they need. In addition, the CVC can help move proteins from inside the cell to the surface. Some of these proteins, like TcTS, TcTSSA II, and mucins, are important for T. cruzi to survive and cause disease. The CVC can help move these proteins to the surface of the cell. It's not clear exactly how this happens, but it may involve a special part of the CVC that is like a lipid raft. TcRab11, a protein that is important for moving things inside cells, is also found in the CVC. Changing the amount of TcRab11 in the cell can change the shape of the CVC, the way water is regulated in the cell, and how TcTS is moved to the surface. This suggests that the CVC may use an unconventional way of moving proteins from inside the cell to the surface. This new way of moving proteins may be different from what happens in other cells.
Rabies is a serious illness that can cause death, and it is caused by a virus. It is still a big problem in many countries, especially in Asia and Africa. The WHO is working to eliminate the disease, but it is still listed as a "neglected tropical disease" because prevention is not always good in certain places where medical care is not good. There are different ways to prevent rabies, but the most common is called post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). This includes vaccinations and other treatments. In some places, a special kind of vaccine called "human rabies immunoglobulin" is also used. However, it is not always easy for people in these places to get the full treatment because they may not have easy access to medical care. This can be a problem because you need to take the full treatment to be effective. To solve this problem, researchers have found a way to take the treatment in just one week instead of four weeks. This new method uses four vaccinations instead of two, and they are given on different days (D0, D3, and D7). This new method has shown good results in clinical trials. Researchers wanted to show that the new method was just as good as the current method, which is the updated 2-site/TRC regimen with or without concomitant administration of human rabies immunoglobulin. They used a purified chick embryo cell culture vaccine and found that the new method was just as effective as the current method.
The human brain is a complex system capable of supporting a wide range of adaptive goal-relevant behaviors. The salience network (SN) is a crucial part of this system and plays a role in cognition and emotion by detecting and attentional capturing of goal-relevant stimuli. The SN is composed of two nodes: the anterior insula (AI) and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC). The SN is ubiquitously involved in various cognitive tasks, and atypical functional engagement of the SN is a common feature of several neuropsychiatric disorders. The goal of this study is to investigate the dynamic spatiotemporal properties of the SN using high temporal-resolution fMRI data and novel graph-theoretical techniques. We focus on the spatial and topological properties of SN interactions within a whole-brain system that includes key nodes of the SN as well as a large set of brain regions that have been implicated in a wide range of cognition paradigms. We found that the SN has a rich repertoire of distinctive features that are behaviorally significant. We demonstrate the test-retest reliability and robustness of all our findings across two datasets.
The virus life cycle is a series of steps that are tightly controlled, starting from binding to a host cell, to assembly, and finally to the release of viral progeny. Most enveloped virions exit the cell by budding or membrane fission. Nonenveloped viral release usually requires cell lysis after viral replication. However, a cytolytic pathway that avoids apoptosis would be advantageous to ensure optimal viral release. SV40 is a virus that serves as a good paradigm to study the nonenveloped viral life cycle, including viral release. VP4 is a protein found in the viral particle of SV40. It has a hydrophobic domain that plays a role in membrane disruption to trigger viral release. VP4 efficiently binds red blood cell and liposome membranes and forms small pores in mammalian membranes. Deleting or substituting the hydrophobic domain of VP4 abolishes its membrane disruptive activity. These results suggest that VP4 plays a central role in the direct disruption of cellular membranes to trigger SV40 viral release.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that affects millions of people each year. It can lead to severe symptoms like plasma leakage, hemorrhage, and shock. The dengue virus has four different types and the disease can be caused by infection from any of them. The virus has a single-stranded RNA genome that is translated into a polyprotein. The polyprotein is then broken down into several proteins, including a protein called NS1. The NS1 protein can be found in mammalian cells and is secreted into the circulation as a soluble multimer. It is highly immunogenic and can elicit both protective and potentially pathogenic immune responses. The pcTPANS1 DNA vaccine encodes the NS1 protein and has been shown to be protective against dengue in mice. This protection is in part due to the activation of CD4+ T cells and the production of anti-NS1 antibodies. Our data provides important insights into the immunity elicited by DENV NS1 antigen and its role in protection against dengue, as well as a potential for vaccine development.
This study focuses on a family of proteins called RNPP that help bacteria communicate with each other and regulate important biological processes. These proteins are made up of a tetratricopeptide-repeat (TPR) domain and a histidine kinase domain. The TPR domain is responsible for binding to specific peptides, while the histidine kinase domain is responsible for activating target genes. The researchers solved the structure of one of these proteins, Rgg2, and found that it has a unique mechanism of activation. They also suggest that this mechanism is shared by other proteins in this family. This study provides important insights into how bacteria communicate and regulate important biological processes.
Scientists have discovered a new type of ion channels called pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs). These channels are important for controlling the flow of ions in and out of cells, and they are found in many different types of cells throughout the body. The scientists studied two types of pLGICs from bacteria, one called ELIC and the other called GLIC. They found that ELIC and GLIC have similar structures but different functions. While GLIC opens when the pH of the surrounding fluid becomes more acidic, ELIC does not open in response to changes in pH. The scientists also found that ELIC has a non-conducting conformation of the pore, which is different from the conducting conformation of GLIC. They used X-ray crystallography to study the structure of ELIC in more detail and found that it has a pocket in its ligand-binding domain that is similar in size and shape to the pocket in the acetycholine binding protein (AChBP). This finding led them to investigate whether ELIC could be activated by a ligand similar to the ones that activate the AChBP. They found that ELIC could be opened by a class of primary amines, which they called ELIC-activating ligands (EALs). EALs bind to the pocket in the ligand-binding domain of ELIC and open the channel by a strongly cooperative process. Although the channels are stable after opening, they eventually desensitize, meaning that they become less responsive to subsequent stimulation. The scientists also found that the open channel of ELIC conducts ions in a way that is similar to the way that other pLGICs conduct ions, and they have determined the selectivity of the channel. Their findings may help to understand how pLGICs work and may have important implications for human health.
The article you are referring to discusses the connection between atopic dermatitis (AD) and asthma. Asthma is a chronic lung disease that causes airway obstruction and inflammation, while AD is a skin condition characterized by redness, itching, and inflammation. It has been observed that AD patients have an increased risk of developing asthma later in life. In this article, the authors explore the mechanisms behind this connection by comparing the genetic and immune responses of AD patients and asthma patients. They propose that a combination of genetic and immune factors may contribute to the development of asthma in AD patients. The article also discusses the role of filaggrin, a protein that is lost in many AD patients and may be involved in the development of asthma. Overall, the article highlights the need for further research into the mechanisms underlying the connection between AD and asthma, and the potential for genetic and immune interventions to prevent or treat asthma in AD patients.
The goal of the study was to obtain a complete inventory of bacterial cellular components and their interconnections. The study used a multi-omic approach, which combined genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic experimental data with bioinformatics tools to annotate bacterial genomic features that cannot accurately be detected using in silico approaches alone. The study used Thermotoga maritima as a model organism, which is a deep-branching, hyperthermophilic bacterium with a compact genome. The study discovered several unique features of the T. maritima genome, including short intergenic regions, a single rRNA operon, and an ability to ferment numerous mono- and polysaccharides. The study also explored the impact of temperature on genome features essential to gene expression such as promoters and ribosome binding sites. The study provides valuable information about the T. maritima genome and a framework for future comparative analysis of annotated features across microbial species.
Visual inputs are first represented in early visual stages such as the retina and primary visual cortex, where the input features such as color, orientation, luminance contrast, and spatial scale of image patches are encoded by the activities of retinal and V1 neurons with various input sensitivities. The neural representation of inputs is then used by the brain to infer the possible objects in the 3-D scene causing the 2-D input images. The brain employs cortical area V2 where neurons tuned to surface border ownership signal which of the possible object surfaces is likely responsible for each luminance edge. However, perception is rarely ambiguous and typically reveals only the most likely object at any time given an input. Perception is defined as the result of revealing a cause to visual awareness, while inference is the process of assigning a probability to each cause. As both perception and inference are assessed operationally by the same observer reports, the two words are often used interchangeably in this paper. It is difficult to state the veridicality of the perception objectively. Visual inference from any part of the input is often influenced by the contextual input. The speed and accuracy to recognize an object significantly depend on whether it is in an indoor or outdoor scene, and the color appearance of an image patch depend on the surrounding patches. Contextual influences are also present in the input encoding. For instance, the sensitivity of a V1 neuron to an input bar can be increased by contextual bars aligned with it, and this colinear facilitation has been manifested in human sensitivity to detect a small bar or gabor (or grating) patch. This study uses stimuli that are easy to manipulate and describe. They are composed of several bars, like those used in probing contextual influences on input sensitivity. In each trial of a yes–no task, after only one stimulus presentation interval, observers have to answer “yes” or “no” regarding whether they perceive a target bar, i.e., whether the target rather than noise is the inferred cause of the luminance profile at the would-be target location in the input image. The bias (to respond “yes”) in inferring the target object is assessed in the yes–no task. One particular bias is filling-in, which we define as a behavioral indication of a target object (by responding “yes”) when there is no input contrast at the corresponding image location. In the framework of a Bayesian model, our data suggest that contextual facilitation or suppression of input sensitivities plays no role in the inference probed by our task, and hence the neural substrate responsible for this inference is more likely beyond V1.
In this study, the researchers investigated how defectors can create small population sizes, which can help rescue cooperation. The study used a model based on the production of a common good by microbial populations and combined stochastic and deterministic components. The results showed that defectors can cause population collapse, extinction, and resource limitation, which can all contribute to the rescue of cooperation by creating small population sizes and large variation in cooperator frequency. This study provides insight into how cooperation can survive even in the presence of defectors.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a type of bacteria that can cause infections in humans. These infections can be acute or chronic, and can affect people with weakened immune systems, burns, or mechanical ventilation. Chronic infections with P . aeruginosa can impair the quality of life and life expectancy of people with cystic fibrosis, which is a genetic disease that affects the lungs. In healthy people, billions of cells die each day, and these cells need to be removed quickly in order to prevent inflammation. This process of removing dead cells is called efferocytosis, which means "to bury" in Latin. Epithelial cells, which are cells that line tissues and organs in the body, are able to remove dead cells by a process called apoptotic cell extrusion. This process involves the dying cell signaling to its neighbors to form a contractile ring around it, which squeezes the cell out of the tissue. Once the cell is removed, the gaps that were created during the process are sealed. In this study, researchers found that P . aeruginosa can attach to and enter epithelial cells in a process called efferocytosis, which involves the bacteria attaching to apoptotic cells that are being removed from the tissue. Once inside the epithelial cell, the bacteria are found inside an efferocytic phagosome, which is a specialized compartment where dead cells are broken down. The bacteria are then eliminated from the cell after 24 hours.
The hedgehog (hh) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in patterning and development of multicellular eukaryotes. However, to reach target cells, the hh ligand must be able to signal over long distances. Recent studies have uncovered a unique mechanism for this long distance signaling. The hh ligand is initially targeted to the secretory pathway, undergoes a series of processing steps, and is then released from the apical surface of polarized epithelial cells. The unmodified Hh-N ligand diffuses much farther along the apical surface than the modified Hh-Np ligand. The movement of Hh-N is independent of factors like tout-velu (ttv) and dispatched (disp) that are critical for the spreading of the modified Hh-Np ligand. Long distance signaling is mediated by an unusual multistep pathway in which Hh-Np is transmitted from the basolateral membranes of the sending cells. The modified Hh-Np is not properly released from the basolateral membranes and instead accumulates in punctate aggregates along the basolateral membranes in hmgcr− mutant embryos. Geranylgeranyl-pyrophosphate is used to modify the G protein γ subunit 1 (Gγ1) which helps mediate the intracellular trafficking of membrane vesicles and cargo.
Scientists are trying to understand why some people can control HIV without taking medication. These people are called long-term nonprogressors (LTNP). Researchers have found that LTNP have strong CD8+ T-cell responses to HIV. These cells kill HIV-infected cells and can stop the virus from spreading. Scientists have also found that some MHC (like Mamu B*08 and B*17) are associated with immunologic control. The scientists in this study looked at HIV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in people who got the Merck Ad5/HIV trivalent vaccine. They found that the vaccine did not induce strong cytotoxic capacity in most people. However, people with protective MHC had higher cytotoxic capacity. The scientists concluded that the vaccine induced relatively modest cytotoxic capacity in vaccinees, and that protective MHC may have an effect on the cytotoxic capacity induced by vaccination that is mediated during T-cell priming.
In the past, scientists have found that from a young age, human infants are better at jointly intentional actions, which involve collaborative activity, than apes. This ability, which pervades human life, is crucial for modern human cognition. However, it is not clear how this trait evolved. In this study, we model the evolution of the ability to undertake jointly intentional actions. We found that shared intentions can either slow or speed the adoption of new technologies, depending on whether the benefits are high or low. If the benefits are high, shared intentions evolve and become dominant in the population. This emergence of shared intentions is consistent with evidence that composite tool manufacture and grammatical language evolved at about the same time. Our study sheds light on the evolutionary advantages and disadvantages of collaboration, and how these affect the spread of new technologies.
Spermatogenesis is a complex developmental process that produces spermatozoa and supports fertility in adult males. This process can be divided into three main stages: mitosis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis. During mitosis, spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) and differentiating spermatogonia generate a large pool of cells that will undergo further differentiation. Meiosis produces round spermatids with recombined genomes, which then undergo spermiogenesis to transform into spermatozoa. Many of these stages occur without much transcription, meaning gene expression is regulated post-transcriptionally. One way this happens is through the use of microRNAs (miRNAs), which are small non-coding RNAs that can regulate gene expression by degrading target mRNAs or inhibiting translation. While miRNAs have been studied in many other processes, none to date have been found to regulate mammalian spermatogenesis.
The probiotic E. coli strain Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) is a strain isolated during World War I that has antibacterial activity and can fight against gastrointestinal bacterial infections. It has been used to treat inflammatory bowel diseases and has been found to be effective in treating ulcerative colitis in children and adults. This strain produces a Trojan horse toxin called siderophore-Mcc that can enter and kill bacteria, and it also produces a genotoxic compound called colibactin. A recent study aimed to decouple the antibacterial activity from the genotoxic activity of this strain, and they found that the pks/clb island is more intimately connected to EcN probiotic activity than they expected.
The paper is about a fungus, Cryptococcus neoformans, which is a pathogen that causes serious respiratory disease and can lead to death, especially in immune-compromised patients. The fungus has a thick capsule that is made of a complex mixture of polysaccharides and proteins. The two most important polysaccharides are glucuronoxylomannan (GXM) and glucuronoxylomannanogalactan (GXMGal). GXM is a linear mannose polymer with glucuronic acid and xylose side chains, while GXMGal has a galactose backbone modified with galactofuranose and galactomannan side chains bearing glucuronic acid and xylose residues. Beyond the capsule, the fungus has many other types of glycoconjugates and glycosphingolipids, which play important roles in its survival and pathogenesis. The fungus also has a lot of glycan-synthesizing machinery that requires a lot of energy and is important for its viability and pathogenicity. The paper focuses on understanding how the fungus makes its glycans and how its glycan-synthesizing machinery works. The paper describes the functions of two proteins, Uxt1 and Uxt2, which are responsible for transporting UDP-xylose and UDP-galactofuranose in the cell. Without these proteins, the fungus cannot make these glycans and its growth is severely impaired. The paper also describes the role of these proteins in the virulence of the fungus in a mouse model of disease.
NTDs are diseases that affect more than half of the world's population. They are caused by parasites and are often found in low-income areas. One way to control NTDs is by giving people medicines. However, we need more information about where these diseases are located so we can give the medicines to the right people. We are creating a database that will help us figure out where NTDs are located. The database will include information from different studies and reports. It will be available to anyone who wants to use it. We are also working on a database that will include information about other types of NTDs. This database will be updated regularly with new information from studies and reports.
Tuberculosis and parasitic worms affect about one third of the world's population. In some areas, these diseases overlap and many people have both infections at the same time. People with parasitic worms have a type of immune response that is different from the immune response to most other types of germs. Over time, the immune response to parasitic worms helps keep the worms alive, but it also affects the immune response to other things. In some cases, this can be good, like a reduced risk of allergies or autoimmune disease. However, it can also be bad, like a poor response to vaccines. Mycobacteria, the bacteria that cause tuberculosis, require a different type of immune response to be controlled. The immune response to parasitic worms can interfere with this response, making it harder for the body to fight off tuberculosis. In this study, researchers looked at how chronic infections with parasitic worms affect the body's ability to fight off tuberculosis in cotton rats. The results showed that the presence of parasitic worms had a negative impact on the ability of the body to fight off tuberculosis. This suggests that people who have parasitic worms may be at a higher risk of developing tuberculosis or having a worse outcome if they already have tuberculosis.
Scientists have found a new family of ion channels that might be involved in chemosensory behavior in insects. These channels are called DEG/ENaC channels and are found in both the peripheral and central nervous systems in insects and animals. The channels are activated by diverse stimuli such as protons (acid-sensing ion channels) and the peptide FMRFamide. However, the function and ligands of most DEG/ENaC channels are unknown. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has 31 DEG/ENaC channels, called Pickpocket (ppk) channels, which is a greater number than for any other currently sequenced animal genome. Scientists have found that some DEG/ENaC channels function as receptors for extra-cellular signals and are expressed in chemosensory organs in Drosophila and other species. To test the hypothesis that DEG/ENaC channels might contribute to chemosensory-driven behaviors in insects, scientists have used a genetic approach and expression analyses to discover specific DEG/ENaC channels and their possible contributions to behaviors. They have identified ppk23, a DEG/ENaC channel, as a gene that is enriched in gustatory sensory neurons that are part of the sex circuit in flies. They have shown that ppk23 and the cells expressing it play a role in normal male-female courtship behavior but not feeding.
This study explores how the levels of nucleus-encoded tRNAs imported into mitochondria are related to mitochondrial codon usage. Using the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii as a model, the researchers modified mitochondrial genes to contain more seldom-used codons, and observed no changes in the import status of nucleus-encoded tRNAs. However, this modification led to decreased levels of respiratory complexes, which could be explained by decreased mitochondrial translation. The study suggests that the regulation of mitochondrial tRNA import is fixed during evolution to meet the requirements of mitochondrial translation.
Type 2 diabetes is a big health problem worldwide, affecting millions of adults. It is caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors. Blood glucose levels are regulated by multiple organs, and if they become too high, it can cause complications such as heart disease, kidney disease, and nerve damage. Lifestyle changes can help prevent or delay type 2 diabetes, and personalized nutrition recommendations can be useful. However, current methods for diagnosing diabetes and prediabetes do not measure how glucose levels change over time. A new method has been developed to measure how glucose levels change after meals, and this method can identify individuals who have high levels of glucose after meals. This information can be used to create personalized diet plans to help people with high glucose levels after meals.
The study shows that the protein EDR1 controls a signaling pathway called MAPK cascade, which helps plants defend themselves against pathogens. EDR1 is a negative regulator of the MAPK cascade, meaning that it slows down the signaling pathway. EDR1 and another protein called KEG work together to do this. The study also shows that when EDR1 is not working properly, plants have more defense against pathogens and cell death.
Infectious diseases are a major global health burden that cause millions of deaths each year, especially in poor and low-income countries. The emergence and spread of infectious diseases are influenced by spatial and temporal factors. Machine learning algorithms can help predict disease cases to develop protective measures. However, traditional machine learning algorithms, such as random forests and boosted regression trees, may fail to capture complex dependencies in disease modeling scenarios. Gaussian processes are a type of machine learning algorithm that can capture nonlinear dependencies and make reliable predictions. We present a computational framework that uses Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of infectious diseases. We extract spatial and temporal features from the disease properties and combine them to obtain a similarity matrix. We use the similarity matrix and reported case counts to train a Gaussian process regression model, which can make predictions for future cases under three scenarios: temporal prediction, spatial prediction, and spatiotemporal prediction. Temporal prediction can help predict disease prevalence for each location in the future, while spatial prediction can help predict disease spread within the same time frame in other locations. Spatiotemporal prediction is especially important to prepare against emerging infectious diseases since there will be no historical data for the locations that experience the disease for the first time.
The paper by Drake et al. (2014) explores the potential impact of periodic events on the transmission of Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) in Egypt. The virus is primarily transmitted through bites from mosquitoes and causes significant morbidity and mortality in livestock. RVFV outbreaks have occurred in Egypt since the 1970s, coinciding with the peak mosquito season or the timing of the Eid al-Adha festival, which involves the mass movement of livestock. The authors model the transmission dynamics of RVFV using a system of ordinary differential equations with periodic drivers, representing the seasonal changes in mosquito abundance and the peak movement of livestock during the festival. The model is validated using historical data on RVFV outbreaks in Egypt. The results indicate that periodic events can have a significant impact on the transmission and spatial dispersal of RVFV, highlighting the importance of understanding the underlying mechanisms behind outbreaks to develop effective control strategies.
Anthrax is a disease that can affect humans and animals. It is a bacterial infection that occurs mainly in herbivores, with humans often getting it through contact with infected animals or contaminated materials. Anthrax is a threat in areas with a weakened public health system, and it can lead to economic losses from livestock mortality and lost worker productivity. In this study, researchers looked at the historical occurrence of anthrax in Azerbaijan. They found that the disease has been reported in the country for over 200 years, with the first description of an anthrax-like illness recorded in 1697. In 1996, Azerbaijan experienced a series of livestock anthrax outbreaks that resulted in more than 70 human cases. The researchers used spatial-temporal statistics to analyze the distribution of human anthrax in Azerbaijan. They found that the disease occurred more frequently in certain regions and during certain times of the year. This information can help researchers and public health officials identify areas to prioritize control and develop more effective disease management strategies.
Scientists have used computer simulations to study how a specific type of fat called polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) affects the activity of potassium channels. These channels play important roles in the nervous system and their malfunction can lead to diseases such as epilepsy. The simulations showed that PUFAs can interact with the channels in both an open and a closed state. In the open state, PUFAs formed a variety of interactions with the channel, including hydrophobic interactions with two helices and electrostatic interactions with three regions of the channel. In the closed state, fewer interactions were formed compared to the open state. These findings provide new information about how PUFAs affect potassium channels and could help scientists develop new treatments for diseases caused by malfunctioning channels.
Cryptosporidium is a parasite that causes diarrhea in children in developing countries. It is hard to treat because it can live in water and it takes a long time to develop immunity. The parasite cannot make its own purines, so it relies on taking them from other sources. A study has found that a protein in the parasite called CpIMPDH is a promising target for new treatments. The study also found a way to test the effectiveness of these treatments using a genetic engineered parasite called T. gondii. They also found a way to test the effectiveness of these treatments directly on Cryptosporidium. The study found five compounds that could be effective treatments for Cryptosporidium.
Researchers studied tooth development in infancy to discover the genes responsible for it. They looked at children in two different studies: one in Finland and the other in England. The researchers measured how long it took for teeth to erupt and how many teeth had erupted by the age of one. These measurements are important because they can predict later tooth development. The researchers found that there are genetic factors that influence tooth development during infancy. This research can help us understand why some people have dental problems and how to prevent them.
Down syndrome (DS) and M21 are genetic disorders that affect human chromosome 21 (Hsa21). Full M21 is rare and usually not compatible with life, with only a few cases reported. M21 is a partial deletion or mosaic of Hsa21. The phenotypes of M21 vary depending on the specific deleted region of Hsa21 and can include intellectual disability, facial dysmorphology, and physical abnormalities. DS is the most common viable cause of chromosomal aneuploidy in humans and the most frequent genetic cause of intellectual disability. DS is characterized by facial dysmorphology and hypotonia. However, the causes of delayed motor performance affecting both gross and fine motor skills and weak muscle strength are not known. Hypotonia is a state of low muscular tonicity that can be caused by abnormal muscle function, abnormal neurological input, or metabolic diseases. Impaired exercise endurance is observed in DS individuals and could arise from endocrinal or metabolic perturbations. Mouse models offer a chance to develop mouse models of aneuploidies and investigate the relationship between phenotype and genotype. Several mouse models have been generated over the years that display many features of DS, but locomotor activity has not previously been fully investigated in these models. Ts65Dn mice are trisomic for 102 orthologous of Hsa21 genes located between Mprl39 and Zfp295 on Mmu16, but it is not clear if they have locomotor deficits. A new mouse model, Ts3Yah, has been generated that is trisomic for the Hspa13-App Hsa21 syntenic region on Mmu16, and this model displays impaired locomotion and increased grip strength and muscle mass. The opposite phenotype was observed in Ms3Yah, a monosomic model for the same region. The transcription profile analysis of skeletal muscles revealed coordinate changes in muscle metabolic activity and mitochondrial biogenesis, and this finding was confirmed by alterations in the oxidative capacity and mitochondrial content of the skeletal muscles. This study unravels new insight into the metabolic changes that result in defects of skeletal muscle strength and performance associated with Hsa21 aneuploidy and suggests new candidate genes involved in DS and M21.
The paper focuses on the classical signaling cascade that leads to the opening of GIRK channels, which are important regulators of heartbeat, neuronal excitability, and plasticity. The authors present a model that explains the relationship between the basal activity of GIRK and the extent of activation by inhibitory neurotransmitters or Gβγ, which is regulated by the availability of Gαi/o. The authors demonstrate that the same relationship between basal and evoked activity exists in hippocampal neurons as it does in Xenopus oocytes and HEK cells. The authors also use the model to estimate the functional stoichiometry of Gα and Gβγ available for GIRK, which indicates that 3-4 Gβγ molecules are available for GIRK activation, while only 2 Gα molecules are available. The authors suggest that the unequal and variable stoichiometry of GIRK and Gα and Gβγ explains the inverse relationship between basal and evoked activity. The paper proposes a novel explanation of the molecular mechanisms of GIRK and suggests that Gα is not an obligatory partner in the GIRK-G protein signaling complex, but that GαGDP plays a crucial role in regulating basal activity and the magnitude of agonist response.
This paper introduces PrediTALE, a new approach for predicting target genes of TALEs. TALEs are proteins that infect plants and control their growth and disease development. They contain a DNA-binding domain with repeats that bind to specific sequences in the plant's DNA. The specificity of each repeat is determined by its sequence, with amino acids at positions 12 and 13 being the most important. PrediTALE uses quantitative data from recent studies to predict TALE target genes more accurately. It accounts for dependencies between adjacent repeats, between the first repeat and the start of the target sequence, and for the fact that mismatches are more tolerated at the end of the target sequence. PrediTALE also works for TALEs that have repeats of different lengths, called aberrant repeats. The paper provides examples of how PrediTALE can be used to predict TALE target genes in both forward and reverse orientation.
The task of determining if a change to a person's mitochondrial DNA causes a disease is a difficult job. It can be done in the lab or in a computer, but it can be difficult and sometimes even impossible because of a lack of resources. Many different software programs have been created to help with this task by using information about the DNA sequence, its structure, and its function. These software programs can give a prediction about the harmfulness of a change to the DNA. However, studies have shown that the predictions made by these programs are not always the same. There is no single program that is the best at predicting which changes to the DNA cause a disease. Therefore, researchers are working on a new program called APOGEE, which is designed to help with this task. The program uses data from other programs and databases to make its predictions and it uses decision tree learning, which means that it gives investigable rules for predicting if a change to the DNA causes a disease.
Dengue is a very common mosquito-borne virus that causes illness in approximately 390 million people worldwide each year. Some people with dengue develop severe symptoms, such as bleeding and organ failure, but it's not clear exactly how this happens. Platelets (blood components that help blood clot) are affected in both mild and severe cases of dengue. There is a protein called NS1 that is released into the blood during dengue infection, and it may be involved in platelet activation and death, which can lead to thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) and hemorrhage (bleeding). A recent study has shown that a receptor called TLR4 may be involved in the process, and this study aims to investigate the possible role of NS1 in causing platelet activation and hemorrhage through TLR4.
AVP and ANP are hormones produced in the brain that help regulate blood pressure and water balance. AVP is produced by cells in the hypothalamus and stored in the pituitary gland, while ANP is produced by cells in the heart. Both hormones act on receptors in different parts of the body to affect blood pressure, water balance, and other physiological processes. There are several factors that can influence the production and release of these hormones, including stretch receptors in the heart and blood vessels, and hormones such as renin and aldosterone. The actions of AVP and ANP are mediated through different receptors and signaling pathways, but both hormones ultimately help to maintain homeostasis in the body.
Blood clots can form when the wall of a blood vessel gets damaged or inflamed. This can cause a blockage in the blood vessel, which can be life threatening. There are two types of blood clots: intravascular clots (thrombi) that form inside the blood vessel, and emboli that break off from the thrombi and get stuck in the lungs or brain. These blood clots are a major problem in the United States, causing 900,000 cases per year and 300,000 deaths. Injuries to the blood vessel wall cause small thrombi to form, but the growth of these thrombi slows down after a few minutes. This is because the surface of the thrombus changes as it grows. At first, the surface is covered in platelets. But as the thrombus stabilizes, it is covered by a fibrin network with clusters of platelets and cells in it. We have studied how these thrombi grow and how they are affected by the fibrin network. We have also looked at how thrombin, a protein that activates platelets, moves through the fibrin network. Our research shows that the fibrin network does not create a diffusion barrier that would limit the movement of thrombin. However, it does create a permeability barrier that prevents platelets from reaching the center of the thrombus where the thrombin concentration is high enough to activate them. This means that the fibrin network may be able to limit the growth of small thrombi by preventing them from growing big enough to cause problems.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of chronic inflammatory diseases that affect the gastrointestinal tract. There are two main types of IBD: Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). UC is characterized by inflammation of the colon and rectum, while CD can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Both diseases can cause symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, fatigue, and weight loss. IBD is a complex disease that is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Treatment options for IBD include medication, surgery, and lifestyle changes.
Candida albicans is a type of fungus that can cause disease in humans. It often lives inside humans without causing any problems, but when a person's immune system is compromised, Candida albicans can cause disease. Researchers have found that Candida albicans colonizes humans early in life, and it is thought to colonize the mouth of most infants within one month. It also colonizes the intestinal tract of many adults. The researchers were interested in understanding more about how Candida albicans behaves in the human body. They used gene expression studies to look at how the fungus behaves in the mouth during infection and when it is growing in the intestinal tract. They found that a gene called EFH1 is important for determining how many Candida albicans cells are in the intestinal tract, even though it does not affect how the fungus behaves under laboratory conditions or in the disseminated infection model. They also found that two other genes called RBT1 and RBT4 are required for virulence in the disseminated infection model, but they are not required for normal intestinal colonization. This suggests that genes that influence commensal colonization can be distinct from genes that are required for virulence.
Immunization with irradiated malaria sporozoites can protect against subsequent challenge with live parasites. This protection is thought to be mediated by CD8+ T cells in both mice and humans. Studies have proposed that antigen persistence after sporozoite immunization may help generate protective immune responses, but there is no evidence that this material, assumed to be of parasite origin, is immunogenic or presented to effector cells of the immune system. Recent studies have reported antigen persistence after acute viral infections, but it is not yet clear how antigen persistence affects CD8+ T cell responses. To study this, we used TCR transgenic T cells specific for the circumsporozoite protein, a leading vaccine candidate antigen. Our results show that CS antigen persists for more than 8 weeks after immunization, and that prolonged antigen presentation drives the maximal expansion of effector cells, can stimulate the proliferation of established memory cells, and recruit naïve cells, including recent thymic emigrants to the immune response. Therefore, prolonged antigen presentation may be required for the full development of CD8+ T cell mediated protective immunity.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by parasites that are transmitted by sandflies and can cause skin ulcers. These ulcers can become infected by bacteria and can lead to mutilation and scarring. Current treatments for leishmaniasis are effective but have side effects and require hospitalization. Nanoparticles have been shown to be effective at delivering leishmanicidal drugs to infected cells, and they can also be used to deliver antibiotics to infected skin ulcers. In this study, the authors fabricated nanoparticles that were adsorbed with an antibiotic called polymyxin B. They found that these nanoparticles were effective at killing both the parasites and the bacteria in infected skin ulcers. This suggests that these nanoparticles could be used as a new treatment for leishmaniasis.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a serious disease caused by a parasite that affects the liver and spleen. It can be fatal if left untreated. VL is most commonly found in six countries: Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, India, Nepal, and Sudan. In Brazil, where VL is caused by Leishmania infantum, it has spread due to urbanization. Between 1990 and 2009, 57,973 cases of VL were reported in Brazil, representing 90% of all cases in the American continent. The Brazilian government has implemented a program to control VL, but it remains a difficult challenge. A recent study looked at the early clinical manifestations of VL and created a clinical score to help identify patients at a higher risk of death.
In plants, RLKs are an important component of extracellular sensing that helps plants respond to changing environmental and developmental conditions. These RLKs are divided into two types, RD and non-RD kinases, which have different ways of activating downstream signaling. BAK1 is a RLK that forms ligand-dependent heteromers with several ligand-binding RLKs. These heteromers regulate multiple signaling pathways leading to growth, cell death control, and innate immunity. In this study, the researchers discovered that the kinase activity of BAK1 is required for complex formation with some RLKs, and that BAK1 has a unique way of regulating signaling downstream of non-RD kinases compared to RD kinases.
Anticancer research aims to understand how cancer cells grow and divide and how treatments affect this process. Researchers have found that cancer cells can be divided into different phases during cell division, and that they can have different amounts of time in each phase. They have also found that cell division is not always a simple process and can be influenced by a variety of factors. Researchers have used mathematical models to simulate the growth of cancer cells, but these models have limitations in their ability to account for the complexity of cell division. Researchers have now developed a new model that combines data from two different types of experiments to better understand how cancer cells grow and respond to treatment. This model is more accurate and allows researchers to better understand how different factors affect cancer cell growth.
Coenzyme Q (CoQ) is a chemical that helps with energy production in cells. In humans, there are two genes that make up an enzyme that helps make CoQ. These genes are called PDSS1 and PDSS2. A mutation in the PDSS2 gene causes a rare genetic disorder called kidney disease (kd). Kd causes damage to the kidneys that can lead to kidney failure. PDSS2 mutations have also been found in humans with other health problems. In this study, researchers looked at different types of PDSS2 mutations in mice and found that only mice with PDSS2 mutations in their podocytes (a type of cell in the kidney) developed kidney disease. The researchers also found that the mice with PDSS2 mutations had no other health problems, such as liver disease or muscle weakness.
In this paper, the authors investigate the genetic basis of phenotypic robustness, which is the ability of a phenotypic trait to remain constant despite environmental or genetic perturbations. They show that the determinative development of invertebrates, where the developmental process and cell fate are fixed, is highly robust to cell death. They identify multiple nonrandom features of the cell lineages that explain the ontogenic robustness, and show that this characteristic can arise as an adaptation to certain disturbances in ontogenesis.
Phenomics is the study of the complex set of characteristics that make up a living organism. It involves the use of high-dimensional data to better understand how traits are related and interact to create the whole-organism phenotype. Currently, a lack of transferrable technologies for high-dimensional acquisition of phenome-level data is a major bottleneck in the advancement of phenomics and is recognized as a key challenge in biology. High-dimensional phenotyping allows for the identification and measurement of traits that cannot be detected using manual observation, as well as the use of computational methods to explore and integrate multiple traits. Phenomics is particularly well-suited to study embryonic development, as it is a dynamic process with high levels of intraindividual temporal, spatial, and functional change. Automated high-throughput longitudinal measurement of developing embryos offers huge potential to alleviate a major limitation in the application of phenomics. The EmbryoPhenomics platform is an open-source high-throughput platform for phenomics in aquatic embryos that consists of an Open-source Video Microscope (OpenVIM) and a Python package Embryo Computer Vision (EmbryoCV) for high-dimensional measurement of phenomic traits from video data sets. This platform enables the quantification and integration of interindividual and intraindividual temporal change in morphological, physiological, and behavioral traits with high resolution and to an unprecedented scale in a largely automated workflow. The application of EmbryoPhenomics is demonstrated through experiments assessing the chronic, acute, and interactive effects of environmental stressors. The efficacy and transferability of this platform are demonstrated using two ecologically important species with radically different patterns of development: Radix balthica, a freshwater gastropod mollusc, and Orchestia gammarellus, a marine amphipod crustacean.
Malaria is a major health problem worldwide, with over 200 million new cases each year and over 400,000 deaths. Although some control measures have been implemented in the last 15 years, increasing resistance to artemisinin, an important drug used in treatment, is threatening these efforts. Malaria parasites can infect and kill red blood cells (RBCs) of humans and animals, causing severe anemia, liver damage, and death. Parasites rely heavily on glycolysis to generate energy. Although they have a single, poorly crystallized mitochondrion, they can still re-oxidize electron transport chain (ETC) complexes and use pyruvate and glutamine as energy sources. However, recent research suggests that mosquito-infective stages of malaria parasites may rely more heavily on the TCA cycle and mitochondrial metabolism than asexual blood stages do. Genetic studies have shown that the TCA cycle and ETC are essential for the development of mosquito-infective stages of P. falciparum. In this study, researchers used metabolomic and reverse genetic approaches to investigate the metabolic changes that occur in mosquito-infective stages of P. berghei and the potential impact of these changes on parasite development in the mosquito. They found that these stages are highly sensitive to disruptions in multiple pathways in central carbon metabolism, including the TCA cycle, the utilization of glutamine as a carbon source, intermediary carbon metabolism, and CoA synthesis. These findings suggest that these stages are dependent on multiple pathways in carbon metabolism, opening up new avenues for targeting parasite transmission.
Oscillations are important for controlling behaviors of single cells and cell populations. In order to generate these oscillations, nonlinear reaction rates and negative feedback are required. The network constraint that allows the generation of oscillations includes 'nonlinear' kinetic rate laws for the destabilization of the steady state. While this constraint allows the generation of oscillations with a diverse set of network motifs, negative feedback (especially negative feedback with a time delay) is found in all these cases. Engineered systems based on such design constraints demonstrate the capability to generate synthetic oscillators mimicking those found in nature. For signal processing in the frequency domain, computational methods illustrate one potential mechanism, where a critical frequency defines the bandwidth for high fidelity signal propagation for each network. This capacity can be changed with an increased oscillation amplitude or with increased kinetic rates. In contrast, it is less known about how cells process oscillatory signals. One common motif shared by these networks is the Incoherent Feed-Forward Loop (IFFL), in which an input both activates and represses a single output. The IFFL motif is ideal for decoding oscillatory signals due to its ability to react to fold-changes rather than the absolute concentration of an input. In essence, this network is able to desensitize a system to a sustained stimulus while maintaining the ability to respond to periodic stimulation. In order to differentiate pulsatile and sustained signals, the network must display both states. The system must exhibit a stepwise increase of the output in response to oscillatory signals while having no response to sustained signals. Analogous to the use of radios to transform information from the frequency and amplitude domains of electromagnetic waves, the IFFL acts as a decoder, recognizing pulsatile signals.
Scrub typhus is a serious illness caused by bacteria that affects a wide geographical area. It can cause high fever, and it is hard to diagnose it quickly and accurately. It is difficult to know how many people are at risk and how many get infected. Researchers need to learn more about how the bacteria causes infections in cells to better understand the disease and develop treatments. Currently, it is hard to grow the bacteria in a lab, and it takes a long time for it to grow. In this study, the researchers aimed to find better ways to measure, grow, purify, and store the bacteria. They wanted to help researchers who study the disease and develop treatments.
Urogenital schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a common parasitic infection in tropical and subtropical countries, affecting millions of people. Children are the ones most affected by this disease, and it causes problems such as blood in the urine, stomach pain, poor growth, and decreased memory and thinking ability. Schistosomiasis can be treated with a medicine called praziquantel, which is safe, effective, and cheap. However, treatment programs only include children who are at least 6 years old, because it is believed that children under 5 are not exposed to enough of the parasite to cause problems. But some studies have shown that many young children do have schistosomiasis and that it can cause problems in them. Therefore, the authors want to study whether it is safe to give praziquantel to children who are 1 to 5 years old and whether it works as well in them as it does in children who are 6 to 10 years old. They hope that this study will help to include younger children in treatment programs for schistosomiasis.
The study aimed to identify novel genes that are involved in the growth and metastasis of human cancer. To do this, researchers used the Drosophila model to screen for genes that suppress the growth of tumors caused by a specific type of Ras mutation (RasV12). They then identified mammalian orthologs (similar genes in humans) of the genes found in the screen and analyzed their role in human cancer. Finally, they validated and analyzed the mechanism of action of one of the top 100 candidate tumor suppressor genes found in the screen. This research may lead to the identification of new biomarkers and drug targets for a diverse range of human epithelial tumors.
Meiotic drive is a type of genetic variation that can bias the transmission of specific alleles or genes from parents to offspring. This is achieved by killing off gametes (the cells that produce sperm and eggs) that do not inherit the drive allele. Meiotic drive is found in many different organisms, including humans, and can have negative effects on an individual's fitness and overall health. It is also thought to be the result of an evolutionary conflict between the drive allele and other parts of the genome. This conflict is thought to lead to the rapid evolution of new drive alleles, as well as the evolution of mechanisms to suppress their effects. The wtf genes in the fission yeast S. pombe are a good example of this conflict. Four of these genes have been identified as meiotic drivers in two different strains of S. pombe. The protein encoded by one of these genes, wtf4, works by poisoning spores (meiotic products) that do not inherit the wtf4 gene, while the other three wtf genes (wtf13, wtf18-1, and wtf18-2) are thought to suppress the effects of wtf4. It is also thought that wtf18-2 works by using molecular mimicry to suppress the effects of wtf13. This is an example of a novel type of drive suppressor, as it uses the infertility caused by the drive allele to its own advantage. Overall, the wtf genes in S. pombe provide a good example of how meiotic drive can cause negative effects on individuals and the evolutionary conflict between drive alleles and other parts of the genome.
Scientists have discovered that the expression of different genes varies widely among individuals. The reasons for this variation are complex and can be influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. To better understand this variation, scientists have studied the relationship between genetic variation and gene expression variation using a mapping approach, where each gene's expression is treated as a quantitative trait and genetic changes that are significantly correlated with expression changes are examined. This approach has been very useful in identifying many potential effectors of gene expression. However, this approach has its limitations. For example, it tends to have low statistical power and cannot detect combinatorial associations between multiple SNPs and expression changes. To address these limitations, researchers have developed multiple-SNP predictive models using ridge regression, Bayesian approaches, and multiple interval mapping. These models have been able to identify statistically significant epistatic interactions that are not found using the single SNP approach. However, these methods still examine each SNP in isolation, which limits their ability to detect associations between multiple SNPs and expression changes. To overcome this limitation, scientists have developed an algorithm that predicts changes in gene expression among human individuals using only their genetic variation. The algorithm uses multiple SNPs to predict the expression of every gene, but only SNPs that are in the genomic vicinity of the predicted gene are used. The algorithm also incorporates a comprehensive set of genomic and functional features for each SNP to weigh the importance of each SNP in the prediction. The algorithm has been shown to achieve high correspondence between its predictions on the training data and those on the held out test data. The predictions can be improved by combining the predictions of multiple algorithms, each of which explains different aspects of the expression data. However, the total number of genes whose expression can be accurately predicted using their proximal SNP data is relatively small. Nevertheless, the algorithm can determine the quality of the predictions in advance with high accuracy. The algorithm has also been shown to improve predictions when individuals from other populations are included. This suggests that some of the SNPs that are associated with expression changes are shared across populations. Taken together, the algorithm provides concrete means by which some of the expression variation among human individuals can be predicted with a low false positive rate using only their genotype data, suggesting that the time may be ripe for a broader examination of this important prediction task, perhaps while incorporating additional features such as trans-acting SNPs.
The study highlights the competitive interactions between different strains of the same parasitic species within the host. These interactions can directly affect the rate of transmission and evolution of virulence and drug and vaccine resistance in malarial infections. The study provides experimental evidence for the role of host immune response in competitive suppression of one of the clones. The results show that the avirulent clone was competitively suppressed by the virulent clone, regardless of the initial parasite numbers. However, the exact role of host immune response in the suppression of the avirulent clone could not be explored. The study also provides evidence that the virulent clone achieved a competitive advantage due to larger parasite and gametocyte densities compared to the avirulent clone during mixed infections. The study suggests that within-host competition plays an important role in the spread and selection of virulence in parasite evolution. The study also emphasizes the importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying the competitive interactions between different strains of the same parasitic species.
Eukaryotic genomes, including human genomes, are constantly changing. This change can occur through errors that happen during cell division. One type of error can cause the duplication of a specific region of DNA that is inverted, meaning that the order of the genes is flipped. This type of duplication is called an inverted triplication. Scientists have studied these types of duplications in yeast and have found that they are caused by a specific type of error that happens during cell division. This error involves the replication of a specific region of DNA that includes an inverted repeat and an origin of replication. The scientists have proposed a model to explain how this error causes the duplication of the specific region of DNA. They have now tested this model through both in vitro and in vivo experiments. They have found that the error can occur in vitro and that it can lead to the duplication of the specific region of DNA. They have also found that the duplication can be passed down to future generations and that it can change the structure and size of the duplicated region. Finally, they have found that this type of duplication is similar to a common type of change that occurs in human genomes.
This study examines how viral infection and the immune response affect the process of protein translation initiation in cells. Researchers have previously observed that viral infection and immune stress can impact this process in different ways. For example, viral infection can activate a protein kinase that globally reduces translation initiation for most transcripts, while also increasing translation of a subset of stress-response transcripts. Similarly, immune stress can change the start codon on mRNAs at which ribosomes initiate translation. The study focuses on a specific alternate start codon, CUG, which may be particularly relevant during immune stress. Researchers have previously found that CUG initiation can be induced during viral infection and immune stress, and that it may be a deliberate host strategy to generate immune epitopes. However, it is unknown if start site usage is altered globally during viral infection or if there is a preference for certain start codons. The study uses ribosome profiling, a high-throughput technique that enables genome-wide interrogation of translation, to map sites of translation initiation in viral and cellular transcripts during influenza virus infection. Surprisingly, the results show little signal for CUG initiation in viral genes, but they do identify a number of candidate AUG start sites that are downstream of the canonical start codon. The study also finds an excess of non-AUG start codons on transcripts that are upregulated during the anti-viral response. These results highlight how alternate translation initiation can alter the protein-coding capacity of both viruses and the cells they infect.
EHEC is a type of bacteria that causes diarrheal disease in humans. It does this by making a special kind of protein that can enter the cells of the human intestine. The bacteria can also make other proteins that can interfere with the body's natural defense system, which is designed to protect against infection. The bacteria can use these proteins to enter the cells and make them do what they want. In this study, scientists found that another kind of bacteria, C. rodentium, makes a similar protein that can also enter the cells of mice and interfere with their natural defense system. Scientists studied this protein in detail and found that it can bind to a special molecule in the cells called RPS3. RPS3 is important for the natural defense system in both humans and mice. By binding to RPS3, the bacteria can stop the natural defense system from working properly. This makes it easier for the bacteria to enter the cells and do what they want.
This paper presents a new approach called feature motif models (FMMs) for understanding the binding specificity of transcription factors (TFs) to DNA sequences. Unlike previous methods, which focus on finding short motifs in a sequence that are characteristic of a specific TF, FMMs take a different approach. They model the binding specificity of a TF as a set of features that are important for the TF to recognize its target site. These features can be binary or multi-valued, and global features can also be included. Each feature is assigned a statistical weight, and the overall strength of a TFBS is computed by summing the contribution of all its constituent features. The authors argue that this approach captures the essence of the TF-DNA interaction more explicitly than previous methods, and can efficiently represent complex and distant dependencies. The paper also describes a novel motif finder algorithm that uses FMMs as a basic building block, and validates its performance on yeast TF ChIP data. Finally, the authors present insights gained from learning FMMs for two human TFs, CTCF and c-MYC. They conclude that FMMs offer a promising approach for understanding the binding specificity of TFs to DNA sequences.
This paper discusses the role of the sympathetic nervous system in the fight-or-flight response. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates this response by releasing catecholamine neurotransmitters from nerve terminals and through the bloodstream. These neurotransmitters bind to receptors called α and β receptors, which are a type of G protein-coupled receptors. The α2-adrenergic receptor, specifically the ADRA2C subtype, modulates neurotransmission and behavior. Knockout mice for ADRA2C have high levels of catecholamines and behavioral alterations, such as enhanced startle response, shortened attack latency, and diminished acoustic prepulse inhibition. Chicken domestication was associated with genetic modifications near ADRA2C, and humans have noncoding DNA segments that are conserved in other species but show human-specific acceleration near genes involved in neuronal cell adhesion. Epigenomic signatures can mark the location of functional elements and provide information on the spatiotemporal specificity of their regulatory activities. In this study, the authors leveraged population genetics data and various epigenome data in neural cells or tissues to test whether noncoding regulatory regions of ADRA2C were under selection in humans. They found evidence of selection on ADRA2C regulatory regions, suggesting that the fight-or-flight response played a critical role in increasing fitness in humans.
Photosynthesis is a process that allows plants to make food using sunlight. There are two main types of photosynthesis: C3 and C4. C4 plants are more productive in tropical and subtropical climates, and they have evolved a different way of using CO2 during photosynthesis than C3 plants. The C4 pathway allows for increased productivity because it concentrates CO2 around RuBisCO, an enzyme that helps plants make food during photosynthesis. In C4 plants, this concentration is achieved by separating the photosynthetic apparatus into two distinct cell types. Some C4 plants have spatial partitioning in individual cells, while others have spatial partitioning in two separate cells. There are many different types of C4 plants, and they are found in many parts of the world. Some of the most productive crops in the world are C4 plants, and they play an important role in food security. To understand how C4 plants work, scientists have studied the patterns of gene expression that are associated with the compartmentalization of photosynthesis between cell types. However, these studies have only been done in a limited number of C4 lineages. In this study, scientists studied how C4 photosynthesis evolved in two different types of C4 plants, one from the dicotyledon Cleome gynandra and one from the monocotyledon maize. They looked at patterns of gene expression associated with the development of C4 photosynthesis and identified a common set of genes that are important for this process. They also found that the patterns of transcript abundance in the two different types of C4 plants were highly similar. This suggests that the evolution of C4 photosynthesis is associated with the parallel evolution of trans-factors, which are proteins that help control the expression of other genes. This finding has important implications for engineering C4 photosynthesis into other types of plants, such as rice.
The Ebola virus Makona variant is a negative-sense RNA virus that caused the largest viral hemorrhagic fever epidemic ever reported in West Africa, between December 2013 and January 2016. Two patients with this virus were treated at the National Institute for Infectious Diseases ( INMI ) "Lazzaro Spallanzani" of Rome, Italy. The patient who was the first imported case to Italy showed significant lung involvement, suggesting that EBOV can cause lung damage. The second imported case was a Health Care Worker ( HCW ) working in an Ebola Treatment Center in Sierra Leone. He was treated at INMI for Ebola Virus Disease with oral favipiravir, monoclonal antibodies against EBOV, and sustained hydration. He was discharged in good clinical condition. In this study, the authors compared the levels of EBOV negative sense genomic RNA ( neg-RNA ) and positive sense RNA ( pos-RNA ) in the clinical specimen of the second EVD patient treated at INMI to explore the potential role of different body compartments in EBOV replication.
The Machupo virus (MACV) is a type of virus that causes hemorrhagic fever in South America. It is part of a group of viruses called New World arenaviruses, which are highly contagious and can cause severe disease in humans. The symptoms of MACV are similar to those of another virus called Junin virus, which also causes hemorrhagic fever. There are currently no treatments or vaccines for MACV, and the virus has been declared a "select agent" by the US government due to its potential use as a bioweapon. In this study, researchers created new versions of the MACV virus that are less virulent by replacing the ectodomain of the virus's glycoprotein with that of a less virulent strain of the virus called Candid#1. They then tested these new viruses in vitro and in vivo to see how they behaved compared to the original MACV virus.
To ensure that chromosomes are properly divided into daughter cells during cell division, each chromosome needs a special region called a centromere. In most organisms, centromeres are determined by a type of histone protein called CENH3, which is rapidly evolving. Changes in the sequence of CENH3 can affect how centromeres function and how chromosomes are divided during cell division. In this study, researchers looked at how single amino acid substitutions in CENH3 affect chromosome segregation. They found that certain substitutions can result in haploid induction, where plants are fertile on self-pollination but whose centromeres malfunction when they are pollinated by a plant with a different type of CENH3. This finding indicates that single amino acid changes in CENH3 have dramatic consequences on the ability of the mutant plant to hybridize. It also provides a simple, non-transgenic tool for developing haploid inducers in crops.
Embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) can differentiate into all cell types in the body and are a powerful tool for studying cell differentiation. To study the differentiation process, it is important to identify developmental cues that are required for lineage commitment. This can be done by analyzing the expression of core transcription factors and other factors that interact with these core factors. However, the mechanisms that regulate ESC maintenance and cell fate commitment are not well understood, mainly because it is difficult to obtain pure populations of fully differentiated cells and to analyze the complexity of alternative splicing ( AS ). AS is a process in which a single gene produces multiple mRNA transcripts that differ in their inclusion or exclusion of exons. These transcripts can produce different proteins with different properties, such as different signaling functions. In this study, we used whole-genome exon-level profiling to analyze AS in human ESCs that were differentiated into neural progenitors ( NPs ) and cardiac progenitors ( CPs ). We found that AS in CPs and NPs was different, and that AS events in both CPs and NPs produced changes in predicted protein domain/motif composition that could affect protein function and expression. We also found that AS events modified the predicted miRNA binding site composition of transcripts, suggesting that AS may indirectly regulate protein expression. These findings are important for understanding how ESCs differentiate into different cell types and for developing new therapies based on this process.
Trehalose is a common sugar found in many organisms, but not in mammals. It is important for the survival and virulence of some pathogenic bacteria and fungi, making it a target for developing antimicrobial drugs. Mycobacterium tuberculosis uses two main pathways to produce trehalose: OtsA-OtsB2 and TreY-TreZ. However, while the OtsA-OtsB2 pathway is essential for M. tuberculosis to survive, the TreY-TreZ pathway is not. In this study, researchers created a conditional mutant of otsB2, allowing them to regulate its expression in vitro and in vivo. They found that OtsB2 is essential for M. tuberculosis to survive, but that the mutant could still survive and grow in vivo in a mouse infection model. This study provides new insights into the unique requirements for the OtsB2 enzyme in M. tuberculosis and its importance for its survival and virulence.
This research paper is about a parasite that causes Chagas' disease, which threatens the lives of millions of people in South America. The parasite is from the genus Trypanosoma and the type of parasite studied is Trypanosoma cruzi (T. cruzi). This parasite causes a disease that is hard to treat and can be fatal, especially when it affects important organs. Researchers have found a new potential target for treatment: an enzyme called TcPR. This enzyme is essential for the parasite to infect host cells. It has been shown that when TcPR is expressed at higher levels, the parasite produces more infective forms. Researchers have also found that TcPR is a potent host B-cell mitogen, which is a process that helps the parasite evade the host's immune response. A drug that specifically targets TcPR could help combat Chagas' disease more efficiently. To understand how TcPR causes the immune response, researchers have determined the three-dimensional structure of this enzyme. They found that a large movement happens when TcPR binds to a molecule called PYC. This movement hides TcPR from the B-cell receptors, which prevents the immune response. The researchers also found that TcPR has two different forms: open and closed. The open form has not been studied before, but it is important to understand it because it may reveal how TcPR causes the immune response. To study the open form, the researchers used advanced computer simulations and compared the structures of TcPR with other similar enzymes. They found that the open form of TcPR has conformational epitopes that may be exposed to the immune system, which could trigger the immune response. This research is an important step towards understanding how TcPR causes the immune response and could lead to the development of new and more effective treatments for Chagas' disease.
In this study, the authors developed a new technology called "iKO" that allows for the inducible and reversible knockout of genes in mice. This system uses a mouse line that expresses a protein called "rtTA" in place of the gene to be knocked out, and another mouse line called "TIGRE" that contains the gene of interest under the control of a "TRE" element at a specific location in the genome. To use the iKO system, the two mouse lines are crossed to create a third line in which the gene of interest can be turned on or off at will by adding or removing a chemical called doxycycline. The iKO system has several advantages over other systems for inducible knockouts, including the ability to control gene expression at any time during an animal's life, high levels of regulation for the gene of interest, efficiency, and flexibility. The authors use the iKO system to study the effects of turning the gene encoding the protein "ApoE" on and off, as ApoE plays a key role in regulating cholesterol metabolism and atherosclerosis. They show that when the gene is turned off, the animal develops hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis, while when the gene is turned back on, the animal's cholesterol levels and atherosclerosis regress. The iKO system provides a new tool for studying the molecular mechanisms underlying atherosclerosis, and it could be used to study the effects of turning other genes on and off in mice.
Chagas disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, is transmitted from mother to child and can cause serious health problems for both the mother and child. Different genotypes of T. cruzi have been identified and may play a role in congenital infection. A study used a transcriptomic approach combined with biological network analysis to compare the responses of mouse placenta to two different strains of T. cruzi, one from a non-lethal myotropic strain and the other from a strain found in a human case of congenital infection. The study may help to better understand the potential role of T. cruzi genotypes in pregnancy and congenital infection.
The article discusses the transmission cycle of a mosquito-borne disease caused by Sindbis virus (SINV), which is a zoonosis with birds as amplifying hosts and mosquitoes as vectors. The authors investigate the activity of SINV in vector mosquitoes and the abundance of these mosquitoes during transmission season in the years before, during, and after an outbreak year. The study focuses on five mosquito species, including the enzootic vectors Culex torrentium and Culex pipiens/torrentium, the potential enzootic vector Culiseta morsitans, the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus, and the potential bridge-vector Aedes rossicus. The authors analyze the genetic diversity of SINV strains occurring in vector mosquitoes to understand the introduction and evolution of virus strains over the years. The main findings of the study indicate that the number of reported human SINV cases may not be adequate for defining a potential seven-year cycle of outbreaks or for scrutinizing the factors behind the outbreaks. The authors recommend using an objective marker of SINV activity for further studies on periodicity and causes of outbreaks.
The olfactory system of insects, including the locust, uses a unique way of encoding sensory information through synchronized oscillations in the activity of neurons. This is in contrast to the way sensory information is encoded in the vertebrate olfactory system, which uses sparse codes and firing rate changes. However, there is still a lot to learn about the interaction and integration of different coding strategies within neural systems. Experimental observations of the interplay between information flow and neural circuitry are generally not possible. The invertebrate olfactory system is an exception to this rule, and the relationship between oscillatory synchronization and sparse codes has been investigated both experimentally and with realistic computational models. Oscillatory activity in the brain is associated with sensory processing and cognitive states, and has been well characterized. In the antenna lobe of the locust, oscillatory synchronization is a feature of population coding during the presentation of an odorant. A small subset of neurons in the mushroom body, a structure known to be involved in the storage and retrieval of memory representations, actively responds to an odor. However, this response is sparse, and population codes differ markedly between the antenna lobe and mushroom body. Individual odorants are represented by subsets of sparsely distributed cortical neurons in vertebrates. Oscillatory synchronization is a mechanism for transferring information from the antenna lobe to the mushroom body, and is essential for reading the information contained across synchronized PN spike trains. To fine-tune this mechanism and enable the appropriate selection of coherent oscillatory signals, a form of activity-dependent plasticity between the antenna lobe and mushroom body may be required. This model makes a prediction that plasticity mechanisms governing synapses to KCs in the mushroom body will depend on the rate of spike occurrence averaged over longer intervals. This model is based on a biologically plausible computational model that includes the main processing steps of the insect olfactory system, but was designed to be general enough to allow comparisons to vertebrate olfaction and to sensory processing in other brain areas. The use of synchronized oscillations in the activity of neurons as a unique way of encoding sensory information could be a ubiquitous coding strategy exploited by several different modalities across different organisms.
The human genome has been mapped, which has led to new ways to study diseases like coronary artery disease (CAD) from a functional genomic perspective. Using new technologies and systems biology analyses, scientists hope to better understand the complexity of CAD and identify disease pathways for treatments that are tailored to specific disease mechanisms. In the Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study, researchers used a modified version of a clustering approach to identify functionally associated genes important for CAD. They did this by analyzing mRNA signals from multiple organs in 114 carefully characterized patients. The goal was to determine whether groups of genes worked together to contribute to CAD, and whether those groups acted in isolation in each organ or across several organs. The results of the study could help researchers understand how metabolic disturbances in organs like liver, skeletal muscle, and fat deposits could contribute to the progression and extent of coronary atherosclerosis.
This paper is about the circadian rhythm in bacteria. The rhythm is driven by a protein called KaiC, which has three functions: autokinase, autophosphatase, and ATPase. The ATPase part of KaiC is responsible for the rhythm and is controlled by a structural coupling with the kinase/phosphatase part. The circadian rhythm of cyanobacteria has been studied for many years, and researchers have found that it is driven by a protein complex of three different proteins: KaiA, KaiB, and KaiC. These proteins form stable complexes during the night, and the complexes control the phosphorylation state of KaiC. The phosphorylation state of KaiC changes over the course of a day in a stepwise fashion, and this change is responsible for the rhythm.
HIV-2 is a less harmful virus that causes a slower decline in CD4 lymphocytes, a higher proportion of undetectable plasma viral load, and a longer lifespan for infected individuals. It is more similar to SIVsm than to HIV-1, but they share only about 30% to 40% homology in the env and gag-pol sequences, respectively. HIV-2 uses a broader range of co-receptors, including CXCR6 and RDC1, while HIV-1 uses CCR5 and CXCR4. HIV-2 is not sensitive to SAMHD1, while HIV-1 is, and HIV-2 has a lower level of immune activation and peripheral plasmacytoid dendritic cell depletion. The immune responses against HIV-2 are more robust, and HIV-2 is able to establish a smaller reservoir of infected cells, which may be the reason for its lower pathogenicity. HIV-2 DNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are equivalent to those measured in HIV-1 infected individuals with similar CD4 cell counts. HIV-2 infection takes place in both transitional-memory and resting central-memory CD4+ T cells, which may explain why it is more similar to non-pathogenic SIVsm infection or non-progressive HIV-1 infection of HLA-B*27+ or B*57+ LTNPs than to HIV-1 infection.
The human brain is able to focus attention on certain things while ignoring others. This ability has been studied extensively in the past, resulting in a wide range of theories and experiments. However, there are few models that can accurately explain multiple forms of attentional effects while taking into account the details of how the brain works. In this study, we present a new model called the Attentional Routing Circuit (ARC). The ARC is made up of many layers of neurons that work together to help us pay attention to specific things. The model is able to explain a variety of different types of attentional effects, including how attention can change the size and location of a neuron's "sensitivity" area (also known as its receptive field), how attention can make neurons more sensitive to certain things without changing their shape, and how attention can change the sensitivity of neurons to different stimuli. The ARC is made up of spiking neurons, which means that it can be tested and compared to real brain data. The ARC also makes several specific predictions that can be tested in the future.
Atrial fibrillation is a common and serious heart condition that causes significant problems. Current treatments for it have limitations and can cause side effects. It can also run in families, and it is estimated that about one in four people with atrial fibrillation has a family member with the condition as well. Researchers have identified many genes that may be associated with atrial fibrillation using various methods. However, these studies have had limitations, including small sample sizes, considering only a few genes, and lack of suitable control populations. To understand the genetic basis of atrial fibrillation and potentially develop better treatments, researchers studied whole exome sequencing data from a large group of people with atrial fibrillation and compared it to a control population. They also looked at whether certain genes that have been associated with atrial fibrillation in previous studies were more common in people with atrial fibrillation than in the control population.
Alveolar Echinococcosis (AE) is a disease that can affect humans and animals. It is caused by a type of worm called Echinococcus multilocularis. The disease has been reported in at least 42 countries of the northern hemisphere. Recent studies have shown that the worm is more common in foxes than previously thought and it has spread from rural areas to urban areas. AE is a slow-growing disease and it may take several years or even decades before symptoms appear. The disease is spreading in Poland, where a fox population has increased significantly in recent years. The Varmia-Masuria Province of Poland has the highest rate of infection with E. multilocularis in foxes. Human AE was first diagnosed in Poland in the 1980s, and since then, there has been an increase in the number of cases. These cases have been reported individually. There have been 14 human AE cases reported in total, with two of them diagnosed in the 1980s. In an attempt to coordinate scientific research into AE in Poland, four clinical centers in the country organized a reference laboratory for serologic differentiation. The first attempt to register human AE cases in Poland was made in 1998, and the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate of Poland has continued this effort since 2003. Preliminary data on 121 human AE cases registered in Poland from 1990 to 2011 have been analyzed. The treatment for human AE usually involves chemotherapy with albendazole and radical surgery. However, the cost of albendazole is high in Poland, which makes it difficult to treat the disease.
Zinc is an important metal for many processes in the body, such as immune activation, malaria parasite invasion of red blood cells, and glucose-induced insulin secretion. In addition, zinc is used by both beneficial and harmful bacteria that live in the human body. The ability of these bacteria to adapt to the host environment is dependent on their ability to withstand large changes in zinc availability. A protein called Zinc uptake regulator (Zur) helps bacteria cope with these changes by controlling the expression of genes involved in zinc import, ribosomal protein synthesis, and periplasmic zinc trafficking. Researchers have found that Zur is a highly sensitive receptor that responds to changes in zinc concentration at sub-femtomolar ranges. The Zur protein binds to a specific DNA sequence and turns off transcription when zinc is present in sufficient amounts. The researchers have also determined the crystal structure of Zur bound to the znuABC operator, which helps to understand the molecular basis of Zur-DNA cooperativity. Their findings have shed light on the mechanisms by which Zur regulates the expression of different genes and how bacteria can adapt to changes in the host environment.
Rift Valley fever is a disease that affects animals and humans. It is a virus that is transmitted by mosquitoes, and there are different types of mosquitoes that can transmit it. The disease causes high mortality rates in young animals and abortion storms in pregnant females. It can also cause severe complications in humans, such as encephalitis, retinitis or fatal haemorrhagic fever. The disease is found in most countries in Africa and has been reported outside of Africa as well. There have been outbreaks of the disease in Kenya, Somalia, Tanzania, Sudan, Mayotte, and Madagascar. In Madagascar, the disease has been found in cattle and humans, and there have been several outbreaks in the past. A study was conducted in Madagascar to understand how the disease is transmitted and to identify the factors that contribute to the recurrent transmission of the disease in that area. A model of the disease transmission was developed and used to analyze three scenarios that could explain the recurrent circulation of the disease in the study area. These scenarios include direct transmission between cattle during winter when there are no mosquitoes, low level vector-based circulation during winter with a residual vector population, and a combination of both. The study results suggest that the recurrent circulation of the disease in the study area is likely to be explained by a combination of both direct transmission and low level vector-based circulation during winter with a residual vector population.
The Asian tiger mosquito is a highly invasive species that has spread globally from Asia and the Pacific Islands to many other regions. It is known to carry and transmit several harmful viruses, such as dengue, chikungunya, and Zika. Despite its importance, the genetic structure and patterns of this mosquito population in the Indo-Pacific region are not well understood. This study used nuclear and mitochondrial markers to analyze the genetic makeup of Aedes albopictus populations in SE Asia, Papua New Guinea, and other Pacific islands. The study found that there was a high degree of genetic diversity in these populations, which suggests that they have been separated for a long time. It also found that there was a high degree of human-mediated migration between these populations, which is likely due to travel and trade. The study used ABC analysis to determine the most likely scenario for the colonization of the Torres Strait Islands in Australia. It found that the mosquito population there had gone through a genetic bottleneck due to human interventions and environmental conditions, but it was still genetically diverse. Overall, this study provides valuable information about the genetic structure and patterns of Aedes albopictus in the Indo-Pacific region and can help inform control strategies for this important disease-carrying mosquito species.
Schistosomiasis is a severe illness that affects millions of people around the world, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. In Tanzania, the condition is particularly widespread and can lead to severe health problems in children and adults. In a region around Lake Victoria in Tanzania, intestinal schistosomiasis, caused by the parasite S. mansoni, is particularly common and can cause serious health problems in school-aged children. The severity of the condition can be measured by ultrasonography and physical fitness tests. However, physical fitness tests have not been found to be useful for evaluating the severity of the condition in young children. Instead, physical fitness and quality of life questionnaires may be more effective for evaluating the severity of the condition in young children.
Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonosis that is caused by a spirochete of the genus Leptospira. It is prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions, especially in areas with heavy rainfall and slums. It can cause a severe infection called Weil’s disease in humans with a fatality rate of 5-15%, characterized by jaundice, renal failure, and hemorrhage. Leptospirosis also affects animals, causing reproductive failure, abortion, and infertility in cattle and acute febrile illness with renal and hepatic failure in dogs. The main reservoir of Leptospira are wild rodents, such as brown rats, which are asymptomatic and carry leptospires in their kidneys. Leptospires are shed in the rat’s urine and infect humans and other animals through direct or indirect contact with the contaminated environment. Brown rats appear to have a specific association with the Icterohaemorrhagiae serogroup that causes most human cases of leptospirosis worldwide. To understand the transmission of leptospirosis, it is important to study the infection kinetics in rats.
Sepsis is a serious condition that can cause organs to fail, such as the lungs, kidneys, and liver. It affects around 18 million people worldwide each year and the number of cases is increasing. The current treatments for sepsis are not very effective and researchers are working on developing better treatments. Some researchers are studying a protein called AnxA2 to see if it can help treat sepsis. AnxA2 is a protein that helps keep cells together and has been found to be involved in many cellular processes and diseases. It is not clear how AnxA2 is related to sepsis, but recent research suggests that it may be able to help regulate the inflammatory response during sepsis and protect organs from damage.
The paper is about how the innate immune system, specifically cells called monocytes/macrophages, can play a role in the spread of HIV-1 virus. These cells are important for early-stage viral transmission, persistence, and virus dissemination throughout the body. They can also accumulate HIV-1 for prolonged periods of time. The paper also discusses how these cells are able to migrate into tissues and how they can deliver HIV-1 to all tissues and organs in the body, including the brain. The paper also discusses how toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a role in regulating both the innate and adaptive immune system, and how stimulation of TLR-dependent pathways can lead to the activation of transcription factors such as nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and the expression of type I interferons ( IFNs) and pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The paper also discusses how TLR triggering can contribute to HIV-1 pathogenesis, but that some TLR ligands, such as lypopolysaccharide (LPS) and polyinosine-polycytidylic acid (poly (I∶C)), can inhibit HIV-1 replication in macrophages. The paper also discusses how other innate immune cells, such as microglia, can be affected by TLR stimulation and can also inhibit HIV-1 infection in an interferon-regulatory factor 3-dependent manner. Finally, the paper discusses how microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent regulators of gene expression and how they can be regulated by inflammatory stimuli. The paper also discusses how some miRNAs can directly target the 3′ untranslated regions (3′UTR) of the viral mRNAs and how they can inhibit viral replication. The paper also discusses how some miRNAs are more abundant in monocytes than in macrophages and how they can contribute to the reduced susceptibility of monocytes to HIV-1 infection. Finally, the paper discusses how some miRNAs, such as miR-155, can play a fundamental role in establishing appropriate immune responses and how they can be up-regulated upon TLR3/4- but not TLR7-stimulation, and how specific inhibition of miR-155 can partially restore HIV-1 infection in poly (I∶C)-stimulated MDMs.
This paper looks at how plants control their growth, which involves cell division and expansion. There are six classes of phytohormones that control growth, including gibberellins, auxin, brassinosteroids, abscisic acid, cytokinin, and ethylene. These hormones regulate different types of growth, with some promoting long cell expansion and others promoting short cell expansion. The paper found that these hormones can be both redundant and specific, meaning they can have multiple functions or just one specific function. For example, a mutation in a biosynthetic enzyme of gibberellins or brassinosteroids results in a dwarf phenotype. This is because these hormones are nonredundant, meaning they have a unique function. On the other hand, treatments with gibberellins or brassinosteroids result in the up-regulation of many common target genes, meaning that there is significant integration and crosstalk between these hormone pathways. The paper also found that the circadian clock regulates many phytohormone-associated transcripts, meaning that there is an intimate connection between phytohormone activity and time-of-day specificity. The paper suggests that the circadian clock gates both IAA pathways and IAA-mediated growth. Finally, the paper shows that the circadian clock and light signaling pathways interact to coordinate the expression of biosynthetic, catabolic, receptor, and signaling genes from multiple phytohormone pathways. The coordination of phytohormone transcript abundance correlated well with the time of maximum growth, consistent with phytohormone pathways directly controlling growth. The paper also identifies and characterizes a cis-regulatory element that is overrepresented in phytohormone gene promoters, showing that it confers both diurnal and circadian cycling to the luciferase (LUC) reporter in vivo. The paper proposes a model in which the circadian clock indirectly controls growth by maintaining light signaling during the early part of the evening, which ensures that peak phytohormone transcript abundance coincides with the end of the dark period. This provides a framework for understanding how seedlings transition from dark-dependent to light-dependent growth after germination and respond appropriately to changes in the light environment.
The research group of Dr. Julio Sandoval from the Universidad Autónoma de Santa María (Chile) presented a new study to control disease vectors, such as mosquitoes and insects that transmit parasites to humans. They proposed a new strategy to control insect pests by delivering pieces of genetic material called double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) to the insects through bacteria. The bacteria are genetically modified to produce dsRNA specific to the insect's genes involved in development, fecundity, and the ability to transmit the parasite. The researchers used the insect Rhodnius prolixus, a vector of Trypanosoma cruzi, which causes Chagas disease, as an example. They showed that when the insect ingests bacteria that produce dsRNA specific to RHBP or catalase genes, it affects the normal development of the insects and their ability to reproduce. This could be a promising method for the control of disease vectors in the future.
Pregnancy and fever can be dangerous, leading to maternal death and infant illness. In 1984-1986, malaria was the main cause of illness for pregnant refugees on the Thai-Burmese border. Malaria can cause death and can lead to preterm birth, stillbirth, and miscarriage. There are no safe and effective antimalarial drugs for pregnant women, so antenatal clinics are the only option for prevention. However, diagnosing malaria can be difficult, and without a confirmed diagnosis it's difficult to give the right treatment. A study of pregnant women and their babies on the Thai-Burmese border found that fever during pregnancy increased the risk of neonatal death by 2.5 times. This study aimed to identify the organisms causing fever in pregnant women on the Thai-Burmese border.
The article discusses the importance of meiotic recombination during gametogenesis in humans, which leads to genetic diversity in the next generation. This process involves crossover events that can occur in different locations along the genome. However, there are differences in recombination rates and patterns between sexes, with females having lower rates at the telomeres, longer genetic maps, and more sex-specific hotspots. These differences may be caused by sexual dimorphism in the regulation of the meiotic process. The article also discusses high levels of variation in recombination rates among individuals, both between and within sexes. Furthermore, the number of crossovers in gametes of the same individual can also vary, but whether this variation translates into variation in offspring recombination is not well understood. The article highlights the importance of age in recombination, as maternal age has been linked to chromosomal aneuploidy. It has been observed that oocytes ovulated late in life are the result of more premeiotic mitotic divisions. To further investigate this, the article densely genotyped individuals from 68 French-Canadian families in Quebec and localized recombination events at high resolution. They found a significant genome-wide decrease in recombination rate with advancing maternal age, and that chromosome-specific effects likely drive this reduction. The article compares its results with previous studies and highlights a proposed model in which protection against non-disjunction through recombination becomes less efficient with advancing maternal age in some chromosomes.
Scientists are looking for new ways to make vaccines that work better for people who have weakened immune systems. They found that special cells in the body, called innate immune cells, can remember past infections and fight off new ones. This is called "trained immunity." They did experiments with mice and found that if they were given a special kind of vaccine, the mice could still be protected against a dangerous fungus even if they didn't have the usual kinds of immune cells that help with adaptive immunity. This new kind of vaccine could help protect people with weakened immune systems from getting sick.
Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are important epigenetic regulators of plant development. These proteins work in two complexes, PRC1 and PRC2, to regulate gene expression. Recent studies show that PcGs have specialized functions. To understand these specialized functions, researchers have analyzed plant mutants with lost PcG proteins. However, many PcG proteins are ubiquitously expressed and have redundant functions, so it is difficult to determine their specific roles. To address this question, researchers used next-generation sequencing technology to compare genome-wide H3K27me3 and gene expression profiles in loss-of-function mutants for each PcG protein. They found that the CLF component of PRC2 works with different PRC1 subunits to repress flower and embryo development. The specificity of the repression depends on the binding motifs of particular transcription factors (TFs) that interact with the different combinations of PcGs.
In this study, the authors investigated the role of the Trigger Loop (TL) in RNA synthesis during transcription by Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sce) RNA polymerase II (Pol II). The TL plays an important role in the critical steps of Nucleotide Addition Cycles (NACs), which are essential for RNA synthesis. The TL is a mobile and flexible part of the Pol II active site that is critical for kinetic selection of correct Nucleotide Triphosphate (NTP) substrates while balancing transcription speed and fidelity. The authors used genetic and biochemical studies to analyze the functions of TL residues and identified three distinct classes of transcriptionally defective TL mutants associated with differential stress response profiles. They also examined the mechanisms by which proximal Pol II domains communicate with the TL and identified examples of inter-residue epistasis, which are likely drivers of incompatibility of RNAP evolutionary variants when placed in the Pol II context. Overall, the study provides new insights into the role of the TL in transcription and highlights the importance of its dynamic nature in RNA synthesis.
Rabies is a fatal brain disease in mammals that is caused by a rabies virus, a type of virus that can infect the brain and cause serious damage. The virus is usually spread through bites or scratches of rabid animals. After the virus enters the body, it travels through the blood to the brain and causes damage. In this study, researchers injected mice with the virus to see how the virus enters the brain. They found that the virus can travel from the blood into the brain and that it tends to go to certain areas of the brain. This can help scientists understand more about the disease and how to prevent it.
The paper explores the evolutionary history of the influenza A virus that caused the 1918 pandemic. The study finds that the virus underwent a major evolutionary shift after the pandemic, and that it continued to circulate in humans with varying degrees of severity for the next 90 years. The paper also finds that the virus underwent extensive reassortment with other influenza viruses from different species over the years.
The VTA is a key brain area that uses dopamine to signal reward and motivation, and plays a role in nicotine addiction. Nicotine stimulates nAChRs, which are activated and then desensitize quickly. The nAChRs come in different types, and different types are located in different parts of the VTA. The α4β2 nAChRs appear to be the main type that causes nicotine to become addictive, while the α7 nAChRs may help fine-tune the effect of nicotine on the VTA. It is unclear whether nicotine directly affects the dopamine-producing neurons or affects other neurons that produce GABA, which is a chemical that makes other neurons stop firing. We used a computer model to test both possibilities and found that each possibility requires different conditions to work. We also came up with a series of experiments that can be used to determine which possibility is correct. We found that the amount of endogenous acetylcholine in the VTA affects how nicotine affects the dopamine-producing neurons for both possibilities.
This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of a new treatment method for cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania parasites and transmitted by sandfly vectors. The study involved 40 patients with CL in Afghanistan who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: group 1 received bipolar high-frequency electrocauterization (EC) and moist wound treatment (MWT) with sodium chlorite (DAC N-055); group 2 received EC and MWT alone; group 3 received EC and MWT with a placebo; and group 4 received a standard treatment of intralesional sodium stibogluconate (SSG). After 100 days, the results showed that group 1 had a higher cure rate of 85% compared to the other groups, which had cure rates of 35%, 30%, and 40%, respectively. Overall, the study suggests that DAC N-055 may be an effective and safe alternative treatment for CL.
The RAS/MAPK pathway is a complex signaling pathway that sends messages from the cell surface to the nucleus. This pathway is important for cell growth, differentiation, and survival. It involves a series of proteins that are activated in a specific order. These proteins include RAS, RAF, MEK, and MAPK. The goal of our study was to identify new proteins that regulate the activity of RAF and MEK, which are upstream of MAPK. We used a technique called RNAi to identify new proteins that affect the activity of these kinases. We found many new proteins that regulate RAF and MEK. Most of these proteins are involved in processing and splicing of RNA. We also found that the activity of RAF and MEK is not only regulated by proteins that act post-translationally, but also by proteins that regulate the expression of these kinases.
The Cryptococcus neoformans/C . gattii species complex is the cause of a potentially life-threatening disease called cryptococcosis in a wide range of animals and humans. There are two species of Cryptococcus: C . neoformans and C . gattii. C . neoformans is made up of two varieties and three serotypes, while C . gattii has two serotypes. Previous studies have shown that the main habitat of C . neoformans is soil enriched with pigeon excreta, decaying wood, and tropical and subtropical regions, whereas C . gattii is mainly related to eucalyptus trees in tropical and subtropical regions. However, a recent outbreak of C . gattii in a temperate area in Canada (Vancouver Island) has indicated an environmental shift of this species, and it has been found in association with native tree species rather than with eucalypt trees on Vancouver Island. The current study aimed to expand the current epidemiological knowledge by including a further 498 clinical, environmental, and veterinary isolates of the C . neoformans/C . gattii species complex.
In this paper, researchers wanted to determine how different regulatory networks contribute to the diversity of organisms. They looked at the evolution of cis-regulatory regions and transcription factors (TFs). The researchers found that evolution resulting from changes in TFs is more likely to have detrimental consequences. However, they also found specific examples of TF variation that may contribute to regulatory network evolution. They found that variations in non-duplicated TFs can change the binding specificities of DNA. They looked specifically at the C2H2-ZF TFs in Drosophila. They found that these TFs have a conserved modular structure and that changes in DNA-binding specificity are largely conferred by four DNA-contacting residues within the domain's alpha-helix. They then analyzed the DNA-binding specificity changes resulting from C2H2-ZF variation. They found that these changes often resulted in increasingly diverse predicted DNA-recognition motifs as evolutionary distance from D. melanogaster increased, implying that C2H2-ZF DNA-binding specificities may evolve gradually in evolutionarily viable steps.
Typhoid and paratyphoid fevers are major health problems in many parts of the world, particularly in Africa and South East Asia, and require quick and accurate diagnosis. This can be difficult because these diseases are caused by bacteria that can be difficult to identify with traditional methods. Molecular methods such as PCR can help with this, as they can identify the bacteria more quickly and accurately. In this paper, the authors describe a new molecular method for identifying the bacteria that cause typhoid and paratyphoid fevers. This method uses polymorphisms in a region of the bacteria's DNA called the CRISPR region. The authors tested this method on 20 different strains of bacteria, including strains that cause typhoid and paratyphoid fevers, and found that it was able to accurately identify the bacteria. This method could be used as an alternative to traditional methods for diagnosing typhoid and paratyphoid fevers.
The immune system is made up of different types of cells that work together to fight off infections. These cells are called T helper cells, or Th cells, and they can be divided into different groups depending on the type of cytokine they secrete. There is a type of Th cell called a Th1 cell that secretes a cytokine called IFNγ, which helps the immune system fight off intracellular bacteria and parasites. Notch receptors, which are proteins on the surface of cells that communicate with other cells, have been shown to play a role in the development of T cells. However, it is not clear how Notch receptors affect the differentiation of Th1 cells. In this study, researchers used mice with T cell-specific deletions of Notch1, Notch2, or both Notch1 and Notch2 to investigate the role of Notch receptors in Th1 differentiation. They found that Notch signaling through either N1 and/or N2 promotes the secretion of IFNγ by CD4+ Th1 cells. The researchers also used mice with T cell-specific ablation of RBP-Jκ, a protein that is needed for Notch signaling to occur, to investigate the role of non-canonical Notch signaling in Th1 differentiation. They found that Th1 differentiation is induced mainly by non-canonical Notch signaling. Overall, the study suggests that Notch receptors and non-canonical Notch signaling play a role in the differentiation of L. major-specific IFNγ-secreting Th1 cells, which are important for fighting off Leishmania major infections.
Sub-Saharan Africa is home to more than 62% of all HIV cases globally, despite only having 10% of the world's population. HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa may be made worse by the fact that many people there have parasitic worm infections, such as schistosomiasis. However, it is difficult to directly test this theory in humans. To better understand how worm infections might increase the risk of getting HIV, researchers used macaques infected with worms and exposed them to the HIV virus. They also studied how this infection affected the immune system and viral loads of macaques with HIV. This is the first time that worm infections have been studied in relation to HIV transmission in a relevant animal model.
The study investigates how the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) modifies the way neurons in the brain work together as a network. ACh is thought to play a role in arousal and sleep states. When we transition from deep sleep to wakefulness or rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, ACh levels increase. ACh affects neurons by working through two pathways, the nicotinic receptor and the muscarinic receptor. The nicotinic receptor directly depolarizes cells, while the muscarinic receptor suppresses voltage-gated potassium channels. When these channels are inactivated, the current associated with them (the M-current) changes the intrinsic excitability of neurons. In the past, it has been shown that ACh modulates neural excitability in two ways: by reducing spike frequency adaptation (SFA) and by altering the synchronization properties of neurons. The researchers wanted to understand how cholinergic modulation interacts with network connectivity structure to form different patterns of network activation that have been experimentally observed. To do so, they simulated a conductance-based (Hodgkin-Huxley) cortical network model that included cholinergic modulation and a Mexican hat type of connectivity scheme that was experimentally observed in various cortical areas. The researchers demonstrated that regulation of SFA in conjunction with the balance between excitation and inhibition leads to various network dynamics. They showed that ACh-driven reduction of SFA in model networks with lateral inhibition was responsible for the transition from moving to stationary dynamics, and that E/I balance was responsible for switching between highly local and global dynamics. They then studied the properties of the two states and their transition. Functionally, the high ACh state was found to be more sensitive to heterogeneities in network structure than the traveling wave state. In this neuron model, SFA and PRC effects occurred over different ranges of ACh, which led to three distinct functional regimes. Additionally, the researchers found that both SFA and E/I balance shaped network activity by setting the spatial (E/I balance) and temporal (SFA) extent of network upstates.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that occurs in the food pipe and is becoming more common. The main risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma is a condition called Barrett's esophagus, which is caused by long-term exposure to acid and bile in the food pipe. This can cause inflammation and damage to the lining of the food pipe, which can lead to cancer over time. Mutations in DNA can also contribute to the development of cancer. Some genetic mutations occur more commonly in esophageal adenocarcinoma than in other types of cancer, but many mutations occur in only a small number of cases. It can be difficult to determine which genetic mutations are important for cancer development using traditional approaches. It may be helpful to look at groups of genes that work together in similar ways or pathways. One such group of genes is the SWI/SNF nucleosome remodeling complex, which is mutated in about 20% of esophageal adenocarcinoma tumors. Computational tools have been developed to help identify these groups of genes. Epidemiological studies have linked the rising incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma to the eradication of a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori. It is thought that the bacteria that live in the food pipe may play a role in the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. One way that bacteria interact with the food pipe is through a process called inflammation, which is a response to infection or injury. The TLR signaling pathway is a key part of the innate immune system, which is the body's first line of defense against infection. It is thought that the TLR signaling pathway may play a role in the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma by interacting with the bacteria that live in the food pipe. It is also thought that inflammation may be affected by genetic mutations in the TLR signaling pathway. This study aimed to look at the TLR signaling pathway in a group of people with esophageal adenocarcinoma and Barrett's esophagus. It also aimed to look at whether genetic mutations in the TLR signaling pathway affect inflammatory signaling in an in vitro model system. Finally, it aimed to look at whether genetic mutations in the TLR signaling pathway are relevant in other types of cancer.
Taste is a major chemosensory system that helps animals to recognize different substances in the environment. Taste buds are the sensory organs for gustation, and they are found on the tongue and palate. Each taste bud contains different types of spindle-shaped epithelial cells that are involved in detecting different tastes. The study aims to understand the development of taste bud cells in mice by examining the transcription regulatory network of taste receptor calcium signaling molecules (TRCSMs). This is done by combining in silico and in vivo analyses.
In plants, roots are essential for absorbing water and nutrients and supporting the plant's body. The root system of monocotyledonous crops, such as rice, has a fibrous root system composed of a primary root, lateral roots, and adventitious roots. The primary root is initiated during embryo development and is a fundamental part of the root system that absorbs mineral nutrients and provides mechanical support for shoot growth. Auxin and ethylene are two important hormones that play central roles in root development. Auxin biosynthesis, transport, and signaling affect root development, and ethylene inhibits root elongation. In rice, ethylene promotes coleoptile growth but inhibits root elongation in the dark. In this study, we found that YUC8/REIN7, a member of the YUC gene family, is mainly involved in the conversion of IPA to IAA in auxin biosynthesis and root growth. The results provide a new insight into understanding of ethylene and auxin interaction in regulating rice root growth.
Pulmonary and other non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) infections have increased in humans globally, but these diseases are not yet considered a serious public health threat. This is because there is little evidence to support human-to-human transmission, and most NTM species have not been well defined. There are around 150 recognized species of NTM, and their species spectrum varies depending on the geographical region. Most NTM species are isolated from pulmonary samples, but many remain as colonizers. Extrapulmonary involvement of NTM is commonly seen in lymph nodes, skin, soft tissues, bones, and central nervous system. Despite this broad disease spectrum, there are not many studies on the incidence of NTM in most parts of the world, including Saudi Arabia. To understand more about NTM in Saudi Arabia, a prospective study was conducted to analyze the species spectrum, clinical relevance, underlying risk factors, possible mortality, and geographical adaptation of NTM.
Studies in mice have shown that consuming a diet that mimics calorie restriction (CR) or mutations in growth and nutrient signaling pathways can increase lifespan by 30-50% and reduce or delay the onset of many diseases. The TOR pathway is a conserved pathway that regulates lifespan in simple eukaryotes and mammals. Studies have shown that inhibiting this pathway extends lifespan in yeast, fruit flies, and mice. In yeast, this is accomplished by inhibiting the TORC1 complex, which regulates cell growth and proliferation. It remains unclear which aspects of the TOR pathway specifically contribute to aging and lifespan regulation. In this study, researchers screened a subset of yeast gene deletions using stress response and quiescence reporters to identify genes that are required for stress resistance and quiescence. They found that stress resistance and quiescence require the integration of multiple signaling pathways, including those transduced from the TOR/PKA, SNF1/AMPK, and cell wall integrity pathways. They also found that the Rim15, Yak1, and Mck1 kinases are required for metabolic reprogramming to increase energy stores and activate the anti-oxidant defense systems, which are important for extending lifespan. These findings suggest that metabolic reprogramming to increase energy stores and activate anti-oxidant defense systems are primary objectives of the anti-aging signaling network in response to nutrient scarcity.
The influenza A virus (IAV) continues to evolve to escape human immunity. Neutralizing antibodies (Abs) protect against IAV by targeting the virus's surface glycoprotein hemagglutinin (HA), which attaches to and fuses with cell membranes. These Abs typically target highly variable antigenic sites on the HA globular domain, reducing viral ability to fuse with cells. However, viruses can escape neutralization through a variety of mechanisms, including mutations that reduce antibody affinity or affect antibody binding, or that increase the virus's ability to bind cellular receptors. We have used a virus sequencing method to identify N-linked glycosylation sites within the HA globular domain that may be contributing to the fitness of Ab-escape variants, and thus increasing their likelihood of emerging.
The prolongation of the action potential (AP), the electrical activity that occurs when a heart muscle cell contracts, can be used as an antiarrhythmic strategy. However, this strategy has been difficult to use because it can cause arrhythmias. The reason why prolonging the AP can cause arrhythmias is because it can lead to something called reverse rate dependence, which means that drugs that prolong the AP can actually be more effective at slow heart rates than fast heart rates. This is because the heart naturally has a longer AP at slow heart rates, and when you add an AP-prolonging drug, it can have the opposite effect and shorten the AP, which can cause arrhythmias. To avoid this problem, researchers have been looking for ways to create drugs that prolong the AP in a forward rate dependence way, which means that they work better at fast heart rates than slow heart rates. The researchers in this study have used computer models of heart muscle cells to look at how different changes to the AP can affect its rate dependence. They found that while many changes can cause reverse rate dependence, there are also some changes that can cause forward rate dependence. This means that there are potential drug targets that could be used to create FRD AP-prolonging drugs. The researchers also looked at how the shape of the AP affects its rate dependence, and found that the shape is very important. Their results provide new insight into how to create AP-prolonging drugs that are safe and effective.
In this study, we aimed to create a new way of analyzing patient data using International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) codes and biological test results. Our method considered a specific quantitative trait, TPMTa, to find new groups of patients with different characteristics.
Stem cells are cells that can develop into any type of tissue in the body. They have the potential to help repair tissues that have been damaged by injury or disease. Stem cells can be transplanted into a patient to help repair their body. This has already been done successfully for patients with blood and bone marrow cancer, and stem cells have been shown to help repair other organs and tissues in animals, including the liver, cornea, heart, lung, kidney, and brain. In addition to their ability to repair damaged tissues, stem cells have also been shown to have immunomodulatory and neuroprotective effects, which may help reduce rejection of transplanted organs and protect against diseases of the brain. Stem cell-based therapies have been studied extensively in animal models of traumatic spinal cord injury, and it is unclear which type of cells, where they come from, how many are needed, whether immunosuppression should be used, and whether the implanted cells need to be modified. The aim of this study was to review all controlled in vivo studies that have tested the efficacy of stem cells as a treatment in animal models of traumatic spinal cord injury. We found that stem cells appear to be effective in animal models of spinal cord injury, and that the type of cells, source, number, and modification of the stem cells used may affect their efficacy. However, the magnitude of these effects may not be large enough to be clinically meaningful, and there may be biases in favor of positive results in animal studies.
STHs are parasites that infect over one billion people worldwide. The four most common STHs are the roundworm, whipworm, and two species of hookworms. These infections are most common in warm climates with adequate moisture and occur in Central and South America, China, Southeast Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa. Factors that contribute to infection include poverty, lack of sanitation, and inadequate hygiene practices. Transmission occurs through contact with contaminated soil or consumption of egg-contaminated food. Although chemotherapy is the current global strategy for controlling STH infections, it does not prevent reinfection. This review and meta-analysis aimed to assess the global patterns of STH reinfection after drug treatment and identify the frequency and leading determinants of reinfection.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common cause of liver disease in Western countries, affecting 25-45% of the general US population. There are two categories of NAFLD: steatosis, an accumulation of fat in the liver, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which includes liver inflammation and hepatocellular injury with or without fibrosis. Gene deregulation occurs when cells lose control over certain genes, and can lead to various diseases such as NAFLD. Pathway enrichment analysis (PEA) uses metabolic maps to determine if a given list of genes is associated with a certain biochemical pathway, providing insight into gene deregulation. However, these approaches can miss information about the wide range of complex metabolic interactions and can be subject to biases associated with different pathway annotations. Modeling methods of biological networks such as metabolic, signaling, and protein-protein interaction networks can be used to study biological functions of the liver for the prevention and treatment of liver-associated disease. Here, we propose a method called Minimal Network Enrichment Analysis (MiNEA) that compares two conditions using transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics to identify deregulated minimal networks, which are reactions pertaining to various metabolic subsystems that can synthesize a target metabolite. MiNEA works by formulating metabolic tasks to mimic various NAFLD phenotypes, such as lipid droplet formation, lipoapoptosis, liver inflammation, and oxidative stress. These metabolic tasks include the known set of metabolites necessary to form the modeled phenotype. MiNEA uses these metabolic tasks to compute alternative thermodynamically feasible minimal networks applying thermodynamic constraints to a mouse GEM. We used mouse and human liver sample expression data and identified deregulated metabolic processes in mice and humans that potentially lead to the NAFLD phenotypes. MiNEA is a versatile tool for exploring and understanding different metabolic phenotypes.
The sense of smell helps us navigate, find food, and socialize. However, there are many different smells that we need to distinguish, which can be difficult because of their variety and concentration. The olfactory bulb is responsible for separating odor identity (what is there?) and odor intensity (how much is there?) to help us distinguish between smells. Researchers have found that the olfactory bulb processes the input by removing statistical redundancies and normalizing the signal, but it's not clear how this affects odor representations. One possible method is rank coding, where the order in which receptors are excited is used to encode the odor identity. This method is robust and independent of odor intensity. In this study, researchers developed a simple model of primacy coding and investigated how well it represents complex odors. They found that primacy coding is a useful way of encoding odor identity and that it outperforms other simple coding schemes. The performance of the olfactory system is dependent on tuned receptor sensitivities, which suggests that there is a strong selective pressure to adjust receptor sensitivities on evolutionary and shorter timescales.
HIV-1, the virus that causes AIDS, has a protein spike on its surface that is the only target for neutralizing antibodies. These antibodies come in many varieties and can be grouped into two main types: those that recognize glycans on the surface of the spike and those that recognize specific regions of the protein. The authors of this article describe how neutralizing antibodies work and how they can target different regions of the spike. They also discuss how the glycans on the surface of the spike can affect the way that these antibodies work. The authors found that some antibodies that recognize glycans on the surface of the spike are more effective at neutralizing the virus, while others are not as effective. They also found that some antibodies that recognize specific regions of the spike are also affected by the glycans on the surface of the spike. These findings have important implications for understanding how the virus is able to evade the immune system and how we might be able to develop new treatments for HIV.
In this study, we aim to understand how cancer cells grow rapidly, using glucose and glutamine. We reconstructed a simple mathematical model of cancer metabolism, called ENGRO1, and used it to identify the fittest way for cancer cells to use glucose and glutamine to grow. We found that cancer cells need to use glucose and glutamine simultaneously in order to grow quickly. This finding was confirmed in mouse experiments, where K-ras transformed fibroblasts grew faster when they had access to both glucose and glutamine.
In this study, the authors reinvestigate the PrPC interactome in mouse neuroblastoma cells (N2a), which are the best-characterized cell model for studying the biology and conversion of PrPC. They use quantitative mass spectrometry based on isotopic labeling to identify specific interactors of PrPC. They find that members of the mammalian prion protein family, including Doppel and Shadoo, populate highly similar molecular environments when expressed in the neuroblastoma cell model system. They also document that a subset of endoplasmic reticulum chaperones which interact strongly with PrPC escape from the ER to reside in spatial proximity to PrPC at the plasma membrane. Pharmacological inhibition of these chaperones could increase PrPSc levels in prion-infected N2a sublines, suggesting a protective role for the chaperones in this paradigm. Finally, their data consolidate multiple previously controversial interactions and suggest a scenario whereby PrPC may organize its molecular environment by its ability to recognize a specialized subset of cell adhesion molecules which recruit membrane proteins carrying high-mannose glycans into spatial proximity with PrPC.
Asthma and allergic diseases are caused by an overactive immune system that produces too many eosinophils, which are a type of white blood cell that helps fight parasites and some bacteria. However, eosinophils can also cause allergic reactions and asthma exacerbations. During an asthma exacerbation, the lungs produce a cytokine called IL-5, which causes eosinophils to move from the bone marrow into the lungs and increases the risk of asthma attacks. IL-5 is a type of cytokine that is made by immune cells called ILC2, which are found in the lungs. ILC2 are a type of innate immune cell that helps fight parasites and bacteria. They also produce IL-5 and IL-13 during infection. IL-5 helps eosinophils move from the bone marrow into the lungs. IL-13 is a cytokine that helps repair the lungs after infection, and amphiregulin, another cytokine, helps repair the lungs after infection and is made by ILC2. In this paper, the authors found that during infection with influenza A virus (IAV), there is an increase in IL-5 production in the lungs. This increase is caused by ILC2 producing IL-5 in the lungs during infection, and by the number of ILC2 and their ability to produce IL-5 increasing after the infection has cleared. The increase in IL-5 production by ILC2 is caused by IL-33, which is made by immune cells called alveolar macrophages and NKT cells that move into the lungs during infection. The significance of this finding is not discussed in this paper.
This article describes infections caused by Salmonella bacteria, which are associated with a wide range of diseases in humans. A subset of these bacteria can cause typhoidal illness, including Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi and various Salmonella Paratyphi pathovars. The vast majority of these bacteria are not commonly associated with systemic disease in humans and are referred to as non-typhoidal Salmonella (NTS). NTS includes Salmonella Typhimurium, Dublin and Enteritidis, which are known to cause diarrhea in humans. However, in some cases, NTS can also cause invasive (bloodstream) disease, which is most commonly caused by Salmonella Typhimurium and Enteritidis. This disease, called iNTS, is associated with an aggressive systemic infection that resembles typhoid fever. In sub-Saharan Africa, iNTS disease has a high mortality rate, and it is most common in children with malaria, malnourished children, and HIV-infected adults. In southern Vietnam, there is a shift in the etiology of bloodstream infections from Salmonella Typhi to NTS. A retrospective study was conducted at a major infectious disease hospital in southern Vietnam to investigate the clinical and microbiological manifestations of iNTS. The article concludes that iNTS disease is present in Asia but that there are no or few data regarding clinical symptoms, disease outcome, patient demographics, or the infecting serovars.
This article presents a method for using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) to identify virus and phage structural protein sequences. The method involves training ANNs using the frequencies of amino acids in translated gene sequences, which are generalized as the percentage of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. To determine an optimal ANN architecture, thousands of ANNs were trained with varying training parameters and assessed for their ability to correctly classify test cases using K-fold cross validation. The results showed high specificity and sensitivity for the classification of phage structural protein sequences. The method was also tested on capsid and coat protein sequences from the genomes of viruses that infect archaea and eukarya. Finally, the method was experimentally validated using transmission electron microscopy. The results of the study showed that the ANN predictions of hypothetical proteins were mostly validated, indicating that this method can be used to identify virus and phage structural protein sequences.
The oncogenic human herpesvirus 8 (KSHV), also known as Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, is a member of the Gammaherpesvirinae subfamily of the Herpesviridae family. KSHV is the cause of multiple malignancies, including Kaposi’s sarcoma and primary effusion lymphoma. After successful primary infection of the host, KSHV can undergo lytic replication or establish latency in infected cells. The mechanisms leading to transformation and oncogenesis are not completely understood, but both lytic replication and latency are important for KS tumor development. KSHV has a large DNA genome with at least 85 open reading frames. One of these is ORF20, which encodes three colinear isoforms: ORF20FL, ORF20A, and ORF20B. These isoforms differ in their amino acid length and start codon. KSHV ORF20 has been shown to affect the mitotic cdc2/cyclinB complex, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. However, studies with MHV68 WT and ORF20 mutant viruses did not find any effect on the cell cycle. Multiple UL24 family members have been shown to localize to the nucleoli of transfected cells. KSHV ORF20 has been shown to localize to the nucleoli of transiently transfected or transduced cells, including HeLa, 293T, primary HFF, HuARLT2, and HuARLT2-rKSHV. 219. A yeast two-hybrid screen of a human leukocyte cDNA library identified the transcriptional repressor methyl CpG binding protein 1 (MBD1) as an interacting partner of ORF20. The interaction with OASL is conserved among ORF20 isoforms and UL24 family members present in other herpesviruses. When expressed together, both OASL and ORF20 share numerous ribosomal interaction partners. ORF20 upregulates OASL mRNA expression downstream of RIG-I in an IRF3-dependent manner, but independently of IFNAR signaling. During reactivation of latently infected HuARLT2-rKSHV. 219, both OASL and ORF20 mRNA levels are upregulated early. Finally, OASL enhances KSHV infection in an ORF20-dependent manner, suggesting that KSHV has commandeered this interferon-stimulated gene to benefit its infection.
This article is about a study that looked at the causes of convulsions in children with fever ( CAWF ) in tropical countries. Viral infections, bacterial infections, and malaria are all possible causes of CAWF. However, not much is known about the contribution of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) to CAWF in tropical countries. LVD is an infectious disease caused by Lassa virus ( LASV ) and is known to be prevalent in Nigeria. The study aimed to determine the prevalence of LVD in children with CAWF and compare its clinical manifestations with other common febrile illnesses in children. The study also looked at the current status of malaria as a contributor to CAWF in tropical countries.
Water scarcity is a major problem that affects crop growth worldwide. To address this issue, researchers have been working to understand the hormones and genetic networks that control drought tolerance in plants. Abscisic acid ( ABA ) and strigolactones ( SLs ) are two important drought-related hormones. SLs promote drought resistance in several plant species, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Lotus japonicus, and Solanum lycopersicum, through both ABA-dependent and ABA-independent pathways. Strigolactone signaling is controlled by the α/β-hydrolase protein DWARF14 (D14), which interacts with the F-box protein MORE AXILLARY GROWTH2 (MAX2) to form an Skp1–Cullin–F-box (SCF) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. This complex targets D53 in rice and its orthologs in Arabidopsis, SMXL6/7/8, for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. MAX2 is also necessary for responses to karrikins (KARs), which are a class of butenolide compounds found in smoke that promote seed germination in the post-fire environment. KAR treatment has additional effects on Arabidopsis growth that include inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and promotion of cotyledon expansion and greening in seedlings. The KAR signaling mechanism is likely to be very similar to that of SLs. In Arabidopsis, KAR perception requires KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2 (KAI2), which is an ancient paralog of D14. MAX2 and KAI2 have not been directly associated, but residues that are required for D14 interaction with MAX2 are conserved in KAI2 proteins. Epistasis tests demonstrated that SMAX1 and SMXL2 act downstream of MAX2 as repressors of KAR responses. Because MAX2 functions in two pathways, max2 phenotypes cannot be readily attributed to defects in the SL, KAR/KL, or both signaling mechanisms. Further complicating the matter, a commonly used SL analog known as GR24 is typically synthesized as a racemic mixture; one GR24 enantiomer has the stereochemical configuration of natural SLs and selectively activates D14, whereas the other has an unnatural configuration and can activate both KAI2 and D14 in Arabidopsis. Spraying plants with rac-GR24 promotes survival after water deficit in both WT and SL-deficient max mutants. We hypothesized that KAI2 signaling may contribute to MAX2-dependent drought resistance. Here, we demonstrate a role for KAI2 in survival of Arabidopsis plants after water deficit, and identify physiological and molecular explanations for this function. Additionally, by analyzing the drought resistance of SL-specific d14 and kai2 receptor mutants, we find that both pathways promote plant adaptation to water deficit.
Schistosomiasis is a disease that affects millions of people worldwide. The best way to prevent it is by taking the drug praziquantel, but it has some limitations, such as not being effective against young worms and not preventing them from getting infected again. Therefore, a vaccine is needed to help reduce infection and transmission. Bovines, like water buffaloes, play a big role in spreading the disease in China. A mathematical model predicts that if a vaccine that reduces the number of eggs by 45% is developed and used with other interventions, it could almost eliminate the disease. Two types of insulin receptors have been identified in the parasite, and they may play a role in how the parasite uses glucose for growth and egg production. The receptor is located in the tegument and intestines of adult worms and in the vitelline glands of female worms. Vaccine trials have shown that a recombinant protein called SjLD2 reduces the number of eggs and size of adult worms, and a new trial is testing whether another recombinant protein called SjLD1, when used with SjLD2, can further increase the protection against the disease.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a major health problem that affects over 120 million people worldwide. It is caused by a parasitic worm (Wuchereria bancrofti) and is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito (Aedes polynesiensis) found in the South Pacific. In many areas, this mosquito species exhibits a unique transmission pattern that can hinder efforts to eliminate LF through the use of anti-parasitic drugs. One strategy for breaking this transmission cycle is through vector control, which involves targeting and removing the mosquitoes that carry the parasite. However, previous attempts at vector control have had limited success, due to challenges such as the inaccessibility of mosquito breeding sites and the difficulty of treating areas with a high density of mosquitoes. Recently, a new approach for vector control has been developed, based on the use of Wolbachia bacteria. These bacteria can be introduced into mosquito populations to cause sterility and a gradual decline in the number of mosquitoes. This approach has been successful in eliminating mosquito populations in field trials, and is now being considered as a potential strategy for controlling the primary vector of LF in the South Pacific.
In many countries, there are diseases that are not getting enough attention or treatment, including sleeping sickness (HAT). HAT is a disease that affects people and animals, and it can be spread by animals. Some of the zoonotic diseases include HIV, Avian influenza, H5N1, H1NI, and sleeping sickness. Most of these diseases happen in poor rural communities.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle that makes proteins and checks them for quality. If the proteins are not good, they are destroyed by a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Ngly1 is a protein that helps with ERAD by removing sugar from misfolded proteins. Another protein called ENGase can also remove sugar from proteins, but leaves a small amount of sugar. ENGase is found in some animals but not all. Scientists have studied the effects of deleting Ngly1 or ENGase in different organisms and have found that the effects vary. Some animals, like fruit flies, have severe growth problems when Ngly1 is deleted. Humans with a rare genetic condition called NGLY1-deficiency also have severe symptoms, like movement disorders and vision problems. Recently, researchers found that ENGase can cause problems with ERAD when Ngly1 is deleted. They used a model protein to test this idea and found that ENGase creates proteins that are more likely to form clumps. Deleting ENGase fixed the ERAD problem in the Ngly1-deficient cells. However, it is not clear how ENGase affects animals that are missing Ngly1.
The goal of this study is to investigate how much variability there is in the spatial gene expression patterns that determine the body plan of Drosophila embryos. These patterns are controlled by a variety of molecular mechanisms that can affect the precision of the gene expression patterns, such as the concentration gradient of the Bicoid protein (Bcd). The study focuses on the gap gene Hunchback (Hb), which is responsible for forming segment boundaries in the body. The study shows that the Hb mRNA and protein production can introduce noise into the system, and that self-regulation of Hb expression helps to reduce this noise. The study also highlights the importance of binding site number and strength in determining the noise levels in the system. Overall, the study provides insights into the mechanisms that control the precision of spatial gene expression patterns during embryonic development.
Researchers recently found out that humans share 1.5-2.1% of their autosomal genome with Neanderthals, our evolutionary cousins. This is because humans mixed with Neanderthals around 47,000-65,000 years ago after humans left Africa and spread out. The Neanderthal DNA in humans is estimated to be from around 47,000-65,000 years ago, and there may have been a second pulse of Neanderthal DNA in the ancestors of people living in East Asia. Some Neanderthal DNA seems to be adaptive, but on average, selection has been suggested to act against Neanderthal DNA in humans. This is because Neanderthal DNA is not uniformly distributed along the human genome and some regions of high gene density and low recombination rate have low Neanderthal ancestry. Additionally, the X chromosome and the Y chromosome and mitochondria have lower levels of Neanderthal ancestry. The amount of Neanderthal DNA in Europeans has recently been shown to have decreased over the past 40,000 years, and this decrease is stronger near genes. Furthermore, a pattern of lower levels of Denisovan ancestry near genes and on the X chromosome in humans has also been reported. Researchers propose that differences in effective population size and resulting genetic load between humans and Neanderthals may have shaped levels of Neanderthal admixture along the genome. They developed a theory to predict the frequency of Neanderthal-derived alleles as a function of the strength of purifying selection at linked exonic sites, recombination rate, initial introgression proportion, and split time. They fit these predictions to previously published estimates of the frequency of Neanderthal ancestry in modern humans. Their results enhance our understanding of how selection shaped the genomic contribution of Neanderthals to our genomes, and shed light on the nature of Neanderthal-human hybridization.
HIV-1 is a virus that can cause AIDS, a disease that weakens the immune system. HIV-1 can infect cells and establish a "latent infection" that can last for decades. This means that even when someone is treated for HIV-1, the virus can still be present and cause harm. The virus has a way of controlling its own activity through a protein called Tat. But, sometimes, stochastic events can cause a change in the way the virus is regulated. This can result in clonal populations of cells that express the virus at different levels. We wanted to learn more about how these stochastic events contribute to the establishment and persistence of latent HIV-1 infections. We used a model of HIV-1 called LTR-GFP-IRES-Tat (LGIT) to study this. We found that the presence of specific proteins that bind to the HIV-1 promoter can affect how the virus is expressed. We also found that these proteins can work together, sometimes in a positive way and sometimes in a negative way, to control the expression of the virus. This can help us understand how HIV-1 establishes and persists as a latent infection.
In this study, we compared different orthology databases, which are used to identify genes with similar functions across different species. Orthology databases are important for understanding how genes and species have evolved over time. We looked at the size, quality, and methodology of eight different orthology databases, including COG, KOG, Inparanoid, OrthoMCL, EggNOG, RoundUp, OMA, and Ensembl Compara. We also compared these databases to two standard approaches used in ad-hoc analyses, bidirectional best-hits (BBH) and reciprocal smallest distance (RSD). These databases use different algorithms to group genes into pairs of orthologs or groups of orthologs and in-paralogs. We found that some databases group genes in a way that can lead to the loss of orthologous relations. To compare the different databases, we mapped the sequences of each project to OMA, which has the largest amount of sequences, and then compared the predicted orthologs. We also compared pairs of orthologs identified by different databases on an intersection set that included only the most competitive projects. Our results showed that RoundUp, Ensembl Compara, and OMA have the most predicted orthologous pairs, while OMA is able to identify the most orthologous pairs. Overall, our findings suggest that OMA is the most accurate orthology database for identifying genes with similar functions across different species.
This study presents a new approach for identifying potential new targets for schistosomiasis treatment, which is a parasitic disease that affects over one billion people globally. The researchers used a combination of methods for remote homology detection, protein structural information, and knowledge of drug-target interactions to identify potential targets within the schistosome genome. They also integrated this information with previously suggested schistosomicidal agents and their primary and secondary targets. The study identified 22 potential new targets, including CHK1, CDC2, WEE, PAKA, MEK1, ABL, and suggested approved drugs that could inhibit them, such as bosutinib, dasatinib, and imatinib.
This article explains how proteins that are unstructured or have long unstructured regions can still have a specific function. It uses the example of a protein called CREB, which is a transcription factor that helps control gene expression in response to changes in the cellular environment. CREB is a well-studied protein that has been found to be unstructured and then becomes structured upon binding to another protein called CBP. The article uses computer simulations to study the folding and binding mechanism of CREB to CBP, which involves a coupled folding and binding mechanism that typically begins with the binding of an unstructured region of CREB, followed by the folding of that region into a helix, and finally the docking of another helix. The article also explores the role of non-specific interactions in the binding process and finds that non-specific interactions increase the binding rate constant, reflecting the increased interaction cross section.
Schistosomiasis is an infection caused by worms that live in human blood vessels. It is a long-term infection that can cause anemia, stunted growth, impaired cognition, and other health problems. There are three main species of schistosomiasis, but S. mansoni is the only one found in Latin America and the Caribbean.
The transmission of HIV-1 is characterized by a genetic bottleneck, meaning that only a small number of viruses are passed on to the next person. Scientists are studying the viruses that are transmitted, called transmitted/founder (TF) viruses, to better understand the transmission process and develop new strategies for preventing HIV transmission. The TF virus has unique genetic and environmental characteristics that differ from those of other viruses in the transmitting person, suggesting that transmission is not completely random. A number of studies have identified these characteristics, including a preference for binding to specific receptors, shorter and less glycosylated proteins, and selection for more ancestral variants. To further investigate these characteristics, researchers generated infectious molecular clones with the env genes of both the transmitting and non-transmitting partners in a common viral backbone. They found that there was a strong selection bias for consensus-like HIV-1 variants in the transmission pairs. This means that the TF viruses were more similar to the consensus or average HIV-1 variant than other viruses in the transmitting person. In addition, the researchers also found that the TF viruses were more sensitive to neutralization by donor antibodies than the non-transmitting variants. However, they did not find any evidence that the TF viruses had increased particle infectivity, replicative capacity, or IFN-α resistance when compared to the non-transmitting variants. These findings suggest that the transmission potential of the TF viruses is not determined by their inherent in vitro replicative capacity or interferon resistance. Therefore, there may be other factors that are more important for determining which viruses are transmitted.
In this study, researchers have examined how the filarial worms that cause lymphedema affect lymphatic vessels in the body. They found that the worms secrete proteins that cause lymphatic vessels to become more permeable and form new blood vessels. This suggests that the worms might actually be able to help the body's lymphatic system function better, rather than causing more damage as previously thought.
The article describes a method for amplifying the genome of a single cell using a technique called Multiple Displacement Amplification (MDA). The researchers used FACS flow cytometry to isolate single cells and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) to select specific microbes. However, MDA has the disadvantages of generating DNA from non-specific templates (DNA contamination or primer dimers) and amplifying the template unevenly. To improve specificity, the researchers reduced the reaction volume from microliters to nanoliters using a microfluidic device. The device is integrated with a cell sorter to isolate single cells and reduce contamination. The researchers compared the performance of MDA with the reduced reaction volume and showed that it resulted in reduced background amplification and increased specific amplification of the desired template. The researchers used direct pyrosequencing to assemble and map the amplified genome onto the consensus genome.
Hantaviruses are a type of virus that can cause a potentially deadly disease in humans called Hantavirus Cardiopulmonary Syndrome (HCPS). These viruses are spread by rodents, which can carry several different types of hantavirus. There are three different species of hantavirus that cause disease in humans in Brazil, and some of these viruses are carried by more than one type of rodent. These viruses have been found in many different types of rodents in the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes in South America. The main way that people get hantavirus is by inhaling the particles of the virus through the air or by coming into direct contact with the blood or saliva of an infected rodent. There are many different factors that can influence how these viruses are spread in the environment, including the hosts’ distributions, the arrangement of contact areas between hosts and humans, and the climate. In this study, the authors used geographically weighted regressions (GW) to explore how these factors might influence the distribution of hantavirus hosts in the environment. The authors found that the proportion of hantavirus hosts in a given community was positively correlated with the amount of agricultural matrix in the landscape, and that it was negatively correlated with native forest cover. The authors also found that the total habitat diversity of the landscape had a positive effect on the proportion of hantavirus hosts in the community. The authors conclude that landscape structure can influence the distribution of hantavirus hosts in the environment, and that this information can be used to develop strategies to prevent the spread of hantavirus disease.
The genus Flavivirus, including Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), Dengue virus (DENV), West Nile virus (WNV), and Zika virus (ZIKV), is a family of mosquito-borne human pathogens that can cause various diseases such as dengue haemorrhagic fever, dengue shock syndrome, encephalitis, and birth defects. These viruses are internalized into dendritic cells such as Langerhans cells and keratinocytes, which are then activated and migrate to the lymph nodes, leading to the spread of the virus into peripheral tissues. During infection, flaviviruses induce apoptosis (programmed cell death) in cells, which is believed to be a mechanism for the pathogenicity of flavivirus infection. However, the biological significance of apoptosis in flavivirus infection remains largely unknown. In this study, we showed that cells infected with JEV, DENV, and ZIKV specifically induced apoptosis by inhibiting BCLXL through the suppression of MCL1 expression, leading to BAX/BAK-dependent apoptosis. Moreover, we found that host protein synthesis was impaired in cells upon infection with these viruses, leading to the decay of labile proteins such as MCL1. Treatment with inhibitors for BCLXL or deficiency of BCLXL gene enhanced engulfment of virus-infected cells by macrophages without an increase of the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, leading to the suppression of viral dissemination.
Canine rabies is a serious disease that affects humans and animals. It is costly as many of the associated costs are not due to illness but rather the consequences of human deaths and efforts to prevent the disease. The case fatality rate of rabies in humans is almost 100% and the disease is preventable through timely post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). However, in many developing countries, PEP is often unavailable. Rabies exposures in humans or animals result in economic impacts associated with vaccination or death. Because rabies patients die quickly and there is no effective therapy, the cost of illness is relatively small, especially in the developing world. In contrast, the major direct costs arising from factors such as PEP and livestock deaths have been characterized in numerous studies. Resultant of the fatality of rabies and the efficacy of PEP, many individuals who are at very low risk of developing the disease still seek PEP. Canine rabies also has indirect costs, including vaccination of livestock and companion animals, and laboratory-based surveillance with diagnostic testing of animals suspected of rabies. Other impacts of rabies on the broader economy can be captured by examining changes in different sectors that result from the direct and indirect impacts of the disease. Knobel and colleagues (2005) estimated global monetary expenses resulting from rabies at $695 million annually. Hampson and colleagues (2015) estimated that approximately 59,000 people die globally from rabies each year. Rabies is endemic in Viet Nam with about 100 human cases reported annually. Most of the exposures, PEP, and rabid dogs occur in northern, more rural provinces. In addition, many of the victims are children from poor communities. In 2010, a large canine rabies outbreak occurred in Lao Cai province, resulting in 156 locals being bitten and given PEP, with three deaths. In 2011, another canine rabies outbreak was identified when nine rabid dogs from five communes in three districts of the Lao Cai province were diagnosed, biting 22 locals, resulting in one death. Common metrics to measure the impact of canine rabies were incorporated into this analysis, including the direct and indirect costs for PEP, dog vaccination efforts, livestock losses, and disability-adjusted life years. The results from this analysis detail the level of burden created by canine rabies in Viet Nam, examine whether canine rabies impacts in Viet Nam are consistent with other Asian countries, and determine if savings can be realized by reducing the impacts of PEP.
A new study from scientists at the University of California, Berkeley, has revealed that there are two different types of T2SS secretin assemblies, each with its own unique targeting pathway. The PulD secretin, which is found in Klebsiella oxytoca, is recognized and targeting by the PulS pilotin, while the EpsD/GspD secretin, which is found in Vibrio cholerae, is recognized and targeting by a different pilotin called AspS. These findings provide new insights into the structural and functional differences between these two types of secretins, and will help us better understand how these proteins are recognized and targeted for secretion in the cell.
Leptospirosis is a disease that affects humans and animals, and is spread by bacteria found in the urine of infected animals. These bacteria can enter the human body through cuts in the skin or contact with mucous membranes, leading to a potentially fatal infection. The bacteria have a lifecycle that includes several stages of infection, and it is important to understand the stage-specific interactions with the host. To better understand the disease, researchers are trying to identify and characterize proteins that mediate these interactions. In this study, researchers found that a protein called OmpL37 has strong binding to human skin elastin. This protein may play a role in the attachment of bacteria to elastin-rich tissues such as the dermis, vasculature, and lungs. The study suggests that OmpL37 is an important protein in leptospirosis and may be a potential target for vaccines or other treatments.
The immune system produces antibodies to protect against disease. Some antibodies recognize and neutralize HIV-1, a virus that causes AIDS. These antibodies can be used to treat AIDS, but they are expensive to make. Scientists have found a way to make these antibodies cheaper by using a type of yeast to produce them. They have also found that these antibodies can be stored for a longer time without losing their effectiveness. These advances could help make treatment for AIDS more affordable and accessible.
Onchocerciasis is a disease caused by parasites that can cause blindness, and it affects many people in Africa. Currently, the only way to control the disease is by giving everyone in affected communities a drug called ivermectin every year. This has worked very well for many years, but there are concerns that it may not be enough to completely get rid of the disease. A study was done to find out if it is possible to stop giving the drug to people in some parts of Africa and still keep the disease under control. This study lasted 6 years, and it found that it is possible to stop giving the drug and the disease will not come back. This means that it might be possible to eliminate onchocerciasis in some parts of Africa, and this would be great news for people who have been suffering from the disease.
The main objective of this study was to understand the process of cell entry by human rhinovirus (HRV), a non-enveloped virus. The process of cell entry by HRV involves a capsid that releases the viral RNA into the cytoplasm by interacting with membranes and forming a channel. VP4, a protein found in the capsid of HRV, plays a crucial role in this process by exposing itself on the surface of the capsid and interacting with membranes. The study also suggests that VP4 forms a homo-multimeric, size-selective membrane pore.
Tularemia is a disease caused by infection with Francisella tularensis (Ft), a bacterium that can be found in humans, animals, and the environment. Infection can occur through skin contact, insect bite, or inhalation of contaminated air. Ft is considered a bioterrorism agent due to its high infectivity and mortality, and its ability to be transmitted through the air. There are different subspecies of Ft, including Type A and Type B, which can cause disease in humans. Francisella novicida (Fn) is a subspecies that is not harmful to humans but is closely related to Type A and Type B. Fn is often used as a model for studying the biosynthesis and pathogenicity of Ft. Lipid A is a part of the lipopolysaccharide molecule found in the cell walls of many Gram-negative bacteria. Lipid A is responsible for various pathological responses in Gram-negative bacterial infections. Lipid A molecules from Ft and Fn lack the ability to activate the innate immune system and have little to no endotoxic properties. The lipid A molecule from Ft and Fn has a unique structure with amide-linked fatty acids at the 2 and 2′ positions and ester-linked fatty acids at the 3 and 3′ positions. In this study, researchers screened Fn mutants for enzymes involved in lipid A biosynthesis and modification. They identified three enzymes: FlmF1, FlmF2, and FlmK. These enzymes are involved in the synthesis and modification of the undecaprenyl-phospho-mannose or galactosamine donor lipid, respectively. The researchers created mutants of these enzymes and found that they were attenuated in mice after subcutaneous and pulmonary infection. They also found that these mutants stimulated an increased innate immune response as compared to wild-type Fn or other bacterial lipid A biosynthetic mutants. This increased immune activation appears to involve the MyD88 signaling pathway. In summary, the researchers identified enzymes involved in lipid A biosynthesis and modification, created mutants of these enzymes, and found that these mutants were attenuated in mice after infection and stimulated an increased innate immune response.
The protein Era is involved in ribosome biogenesis in bacteria. It is a member of the P-loop ribosome-associated GTPase family and is important for the maturation of the 30S subunit of the ribosome. The protein interacts with the 16S rRNA and several ribosomal proteins, and has also been reported to interact with proteins involved in 16S rRNA maturation. When bound to the 16S rRNA, Era prevents the formation of the 30S preinitiation complex until the appropriate time. Additionally, Era interacts with the stringent response, a signaling system that helps bacteria cope with stress, and is important for the processing and homeostasis of rRNA.
Anthrax is a disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. The bacterium produces a poison that can cause severe illness and death in humans and animals. The poison, called anthrax toxin, is made up of three parts: edema factor, lethal factor, and protective antigen. The lethal factor is toxic and can cause rapid death in animals. However, the reason for this rapid death is not well understood. Some animals are more sensitive to anthrax toxin than others, and some die very quickly after exposure. Scientists are trying to understand the molecular basis for anthrax toxin-mediated effects that lead to shock and death in animals. They are also trying to understand the role of nitric oxide (NO), a molecule that can relax blood vessels and make them more flexible, in anthrax toxin-mediated pathogenesis. In the past, scientists have studied the role of one type of NO synthase, called inducible NO synthase (iNOS), in anthrax toxin-mediated effects. They found that animals without this type of NO synthase were not more sensitive to anthrax toxin. However, the scientists wanted to study the role of other types of NO synthase in anthrax toxin-mediated pathogenesis. They found that animals without the neuronal NO synthase type were more sensitive to anthrax toxin and had more severe heart damage after exposure.
Scientists have reported the use of CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology to create mutations in the nematode Strongyloides stercoralis. This is a human parasite that causes skin-penetrating intestinal infections in around 100 million people worldwide. By targeting a specific gene called unc-22, scientists have been able to isolate mutant nematodes with uncoordinated (unc) phenotypes characterized by decreased motility and sporadic spontaneous twitching. The researchers found that these mutations are heritable and can be passed down through generations. This breakthrough paves the way for further studies of gene function in parasitic nematodes, which may eventually lead to the development of new targeted therapies to improve human-parasite control.
In this study, the authors present a model to analyze ribosome profiling data and the effects of premature termination of ribosome translation. They show that taking into account ribosome drop-off is crucial for correctly interpreting the data and modeling translation rates. The model, based on the Totally Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process, predicts that ribosome profiles can be modified due to drop-off and that, under physiological conditions, non-intuitive density profiles can result. The authors also show that ribosome profiles can coexist with low and high ribosome density domains separated by a domain wall. They make important predictions with physiological relevance, namely, that the translation rates of mRNAs that cannot sustain ribosome queues are more resilient to ribosome drop-off than those that can. These predictions are supported by a genome-wide analysis of S. cerevisiae, which reveals that highly codon-biased and rapidly translated mRNAs coding for proteins involved in translation are highly resilient to drop-off.
Soil-transmitted helminths (STH) are parasites that are common in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and South America. There are four main types of STH: whipworm, roundworm, and two types of hookworm. The World Health Organization (WHO) has been working to treat children with STH to reduce their health problems. However, if only children are treated, it will not stop the spread of STH. Therefore, some people are trying to develop a plan that includes adults in the treatment program. This plan is called the "DeWorm3" project. The plan is being tested to see if it is safe and effective.
Cholera is a severe diarrheal disease caused by a bacterium called Vibrio cholerae. There are two main types of V. cholerae, El Tor and classical, and they can be further divided into two serotypes, Ogawa and Inaba. These serotypes are important because they determine whether a person is immune to cholera or not. For example, if someone has been infected with V. cholerae O139, they are immune to O139 but not to O1. Similarly, if someone has been infected with V. cholerae O1, they are immune to O1 but not to O139. We have previously created a vaccine that contains a synthetic version of the Ogawa serotype, and it has been shown to be effective in mice. We wanted to see if a vaccine that contains a natural version of the Ogawa serotype would also be effective in mice.
The study showed that the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the fungus Candida albicans, two microorganisms that commonly infect humans, can inhibit each other's growth in the gut. Previous research has suggested that these two microorganisms have antagonistic interactions with each other. However, whether this interaction affects the pathogenesis of the infection is still unclear. The study found that P. aeruginosa and C. albicans can inhibit each other's growth in the gut, and this interaction can have a significant impact on the pathogenesis of infection.
HIV has a high rate of mutation, but this mutation also creates "escape mutant" (EM) viruses that are not recognized by CD8+ T lymphocytes. These mutations, however, also reduce the replicative capacity of the virus. When EM viruses infect a new host that lacks the appropriate MHC alleles to recognize the epitope, they often revert back to the original wild-type (WT) virus. This reversion from EM to WT virus slows down the spread of the virus, and it is associated with lower viral loads. The rate of reversion from EM to WT virus is highly variable and can be affected by the specific epitope, target cell availability, prior vaccination, and other factors. In general, the dynamics of escape and reversion in HIV-1 are slower than in experimental infection of macaques, suggesting lower immune pressure and lower fitness costs of escape in HIV-1. However, this analysis ignores potential differences in the size and diversity of the initial inoculum in natural HIV and experimental SIV infection. Recent studies suggest that most humans with HIV-1 infection acquire just a single viral strain, while about 24% acquire 2 or more variants. The ability of minor WT variants to outgrow a dominant EM variant is difficult to evaluate in humans because samples prior to the peak of acute infection are often limited. To study this in vivo competition between EM and WT variants, macaques can be infected with known proportions of EM and WT SIV or SHIV viruses. To sensitively and specifically quantify minor variants, we developed qRT-PCRs to study escape mutations that emerged at 2 different SIV Gag CD8 T cell epitopes. These assays are sensitive to variants comprising ≤0.01% of total virus, levels that would be almost impossible to quantify with standard cloning and sequencing techniques. By using these assays, we can now study how the ratio of EM∶WT virus in the infecting inoculum affects the dynamics of reversion in vivo and how this impacts viral load in acute and chronic infection. We found that the ratio of EM∶WT virus in the infecting inoculum can affect the dynamics of reversion in vivo and the impact of this on viral load in acute and chronic infection.
The authors of this study found that certain yeast strains living in different environments could better tolerate high levels of cadmium than most known yeast strains. They discovered that this trait was primarily due to changes in the PCA1 gene, which encodes a pump that removes cadmium from cells. They also found that PCA1 had undergone multiple rounds of adaptation during yeast evolution, and a weaker version of this gene had spread to most yeast populations. This may be due to a tradeoff between cadmium resistance and fitness under low cadmium levels.
In gastric cancer, a complex disease that affects the stomach, researchers have found that many different signaling pathways are involved. These pathways include E2F, K-RAS, p53, and Wnt/β-catenin. These pathways are known to be involved in cancer in general, but researchers have not yet studied them in gastric cancer. In this study, researchers looked at patterns of these pathways in gastric cancer samples to see if they could use these patterns to classify gastric cancer into different groups. They used a method that looked at the activity of each pathway in the cancer samples and used this information to classify the samples. The researchers tested this method using breast cancer samples and then applied it to gastric cancer. They looked at eleven pathways that are known to be involved in gastric cancer, and they found that three of these pathways were active in the majority of gastric cancer samples. These three pathways were nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), Wnt/β-catenin, and proliferation/stem cell. The researchers also found that the combination of these three pathways could be used to classify gastric cancer into different groups, and these different groups had different clinical outcomes. This means that gastric cancer can be taxonomized using oncogenic pathway activity into biologically, functionally, and clinically relevant subtypes.
Superhelical stress can destabilize DNA, affecting the ease of initiation of gene expression or DNA replication. This destabilization can have a major effect on the frequency with which regulatory events occur. The amount of superhelical stress can vary in vivo depending on the energy charge of the cell. The level of superhelicity imposed on a region of DNA can have a variety of effects on the expression of the genes it encodes. Superhelical stresses can transduce the influence of protein binding to remote positions, and this mechanism is essential to many regulatory processes. Some genes have strong SIDD properties, meaning that they are particularly susceptible to stress-induced destabilization. These genes are enriched in regions where genes are divergently oriented. In prokaryotes, the strongest SIDD sites are found in the upstream flanks of genes encoding transcriptional regulators. This pattern is not found in endosymbionts and obligate parasitic bacteria. The strong SIDD sites in the E. coli K12 genome are associated with genes that directly respond to physiological and environmental stimuli. The downstream genes in a regulatory pathway commonly have the same SIDD properties in their 5′ flanks as the controlling transcriptional regulator gene itself. The study suggests that strong SIDD sites are active and necessary participants in the regulatory mechanisms governing changes in the global pattern of gene expression in response to physiological or environmental changes in prokaryotes.
High-mobility-group box (HMGB) proteins are important for a wide range of functions, including sex determination and immune signaling. There are two families of HMGB proteins: HMGB-UBF_HMG and SOX/TCF/MATA_HMG. The SOX/TCF/MATA_HMG family contains proteins that bind specific DNA sequences and are involved in differentiation and sexual processes. The HMGB-UBF_HMG family has functions in transcription, genomic stability, and the three R's. In yeast, six HMGB-UBF_HMG genes are involved in ribosomal DNA transcription, chromatin remodeling, and mitochondrial metabolism. In addition, there are two genes from this family that are involved in sexual processes. In S. pombe, the SpLsd1 protein demethylates histones and affects the epigenetic state of the cell. In mammals, the Y-linked testis-determining factor (SRY) is a founding member of the SOX subfamily, which is responsible for male sex determination by regulating Sox9. In S. cerevisiae, there are two genes of the MATA_HMG subfamily that are not involved in sexual reproduction. In S. pombe, the SpSte11 protein triggers the nuclear accumulation of SpSte11, which is required for the sexual process. In F. graminearum, several HMG-box genes are involved in sexual development. In P. anserina, all 12 HMG-box genes were deleted and the phenotypes of mutant strains were assessed. The results showed that six mutant strains had sexual reproduction defects, and one of the remaining two mutants had vegetative defects. Transcriptional analysis showed that an ortholog of SpSte11 is the hub of the HMG-box gene network and regulates the expression of FMR1 and FPR1 and fertility.
During the West African Ebola virus disease (EVD) epidemic in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone from 2013 to 2016, there were more cases, deaths and economic consequences than any previous outbreaks. Prior to the epidemic, little was known about the persistence of Ebola virus in survivors' body fluids and its potential for transmission. Because of this, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommended that EVD survivors abstain from sex or use condoms correctly and consistently for three months after discharge. However, during the epidemic, there were concerns about the transmission of Ebola virus from survivors' semen and other body fluids, especially after a few cases of sexual transmission were reported. To address these concerns, an observational cohort study was conducted in Sierra Leone to investigate the presence of Ebola virus in semen and other body fluids of EVD survivors. However, challenges were encountered, including the need for an unknown duration of follow-up, the potential infectiousness of specimens, the complexity of interpreting laboratory results, and the urgency of translating research findings into public health practice. Despite these challenges, a study was successfully implemented and interim findings were used to prioritize the development of semen testing programs. The results of the study will be published separately.
Chemicals are found in complex environments in the gut where bacteria interact with each other and their environment. The sensory systems of bacteria, like in E. coli, detect the chemical environment around them. Chemical gradients, which are concentration differences of chemicals, are the most common type of chemical stimulus that bacteria detect. E. coli grows in the mucus layer of the gut. E. coli's chemotaxis system helps the bacteria detect and move towards chemical gradients. Scientists have found that the way bacteria like E. coli sense and react to chemical stimuli is similar to how humans sense and react to the world around them. Scientists have found that a law called Weber's law helps predict how well bacteria like E. coli can sense chemical stimuli. Weber's law states that the minimum difference in stimulus that a bacteria can sense is related to the average concentration of the stimulus. Weber's law can be extended to other stimuli with the Weber-Fechner law and fold-change detection. Fold-change detection states that if a stimulus changes, the bacteria's response to that stimulus will change by the same amount. Scientists have now used a combination of information theory and measurements to predict the chemical environment that bacteria like E. coli likely encounter in the gut. This is important for understanding how bacteria interact with each other and their environment in the gut.
Adult tissue stem cells can produce all the different types of mature cells in a specific tissue. To maintain their function, stem cells need to divide and create new stem cells. However, during cell division, stem cells can become less powerful, which leads to a decrease in their ability to renew themselves. It is still not clear how long individual stem cells can renew themselves before losing their function. This article discusses the idea that stem cells have a finite lifespan and that this may be related to the number of times they can renew themselves. The article also discusses the factors that could contribute to stem cell renewal failure, such as damage to the stem cell DNA and changes in the way the stem cell gene information is stored.
Intestinal worms are a global health problem, particularly in developing countries. Infections with parasites like Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichuria, and Necator americanus can cause severe pathology and make people more susceptible to vaccines. There are approximately 2 billion people infected with intestinal worms. Children are particularly at risk. Worm burdens typically rebound within 6 months of treatment. Worms are becoming resistant to drugs, which raises concerns about the long-term use of drugs. There are no effective vaccines against intestinal worms. Macrophages are a type of immune cell that can do different jobs depending on where they are in the body and the type of infection. Infections with bacteria or fungi are usually treated with classically activated macrophages that help phagocytose (engulf) and kill the bacteria or fungi. Infections with worms, such as helminths, are treated with alternatively activated macrophages (AAMs) that play a role in repairing tissue damage. Recent research has shown that AAMs play an important role in protecting against helminth infections. Our study found that antibodies bind to the surface of worms and help trap them. They also help prevent tissue damage caused by the worms. We found that when antibodies bind to worms, AAMs upregulate arginase-1 and immobilize the worms. This process does not require signaling through the IL-4 receptor, which is usually involved in activating AAMs. We call these macrophages "helminth-antibody activated macrophages" or HAAMs. Our study showed that HAAMs are a new type of macrophage that is different from those activated by IL-4. This new type of macrophage has the potential to be used in vaccines to protect against worm infections.
This study used a new method to identify cells that have suffered DNA damage and are going through a process called homologous recombination (HR) in budding yeast. This process is important for repairing damaged DNA and keeping genetic information intact. The researchers first used a tool called fluorescent repressor-operator systems (FROS) to tag a specific site on a chromosome in yeast cells. This tool allowed the researchers to identify cells that have incurred DNA damage. The researchers then used this tool to measure how quickly DNA resection (a step in the HR process) takes place and how long it takes for cells to commit to HR. The results of this study showed that DNA resection takes about 2 hours and that there is a distinct phase of confinement of chromatin (a type of DNA structure) near the DSB (a break in the DNA strand) early in the resection period. These findings could help researchers understand the process of HR better and could lead to new ways to treat DNA damage caused by cancer or other diseases.
Chagas disease, also known as American trypanosomiasis, is a vector-borne disease that is spread by various triatomine species and is a major public health concern in Latin America. Despite efforts to control transmission, the disease remains active in many countries. Reinfection, or being infected with the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi multiple times, is possible in animal models and humans, although it is not well understood. Mathematical and computational models can help infer the frequency and timing of reinfections from field data. Four different hypotheses have been proposed to explain mixed infections in humans, which occur when a person is infected with more than one genotype of the same parasite. These hypotheses include the idea that the immune response is not complete during the acute stage, and that reinfections can occur in both the acute and chronic phases. By modeling these hypotheses, we can compare the predicted rates of mixed infections to the observed pattern to infer the rate of reinfection and which hypothesis has major relevance. This provides a conceptual background based on agent-based modeling to understand the rate of re-inoculations and the rate and timing at which re-inoculated parasites evade the immune system to reach persistence in humans.
This study aimed to identify the specific immune markers that contribute to dengue pathology or protection from disease. The study was conducted using a unique cohort study in Thailand. School-age children were monitored for active surveillance, and routine blood samples were obtained before and after the peak DENV transmission season. The study design allowed detection of DENV seroconversions in the presence or absence of overt, clinically relevant illness (referred to hereafter as symptomatic and subclinical infections, respectively). In a previously published study of this school-based cohort, memory T cell responses in pre-exposure PBMC were evaluated. Higher frequencies of DENV-specific IFNγ- and IL-2-producing T cells were reported among schoolchildren who subsequently developed subclinical infection, compared with those who developed symptomatic secondary DENV infection. In the current study, we extended our analysis of cytokine production associated with the clinical outcome of subsequent DENV infection by stimulating pre-infection PBMC samples with live virus and evaluating cytokine profiles in cell supernatants using a multiplexed cytokine immunoassay.
In this study, the authors used a mathematical model to explore the mechanisms by which the Hedgehog (Hh) gradient is translated into gene expression patterns in the Drosophila wing disc. They discovered that a transient expansion (or "overshoot") of the Hh gradient is necessary to distinguish different spatial domains of gene expression in response to Hh. The authors also found that Hh-dependent Ptc upregulation is required to create this transient overshoot, which allows cells to interpret the gradient in a concentration-dependent manner.
The authors of this paper describe how they have used genetic mutations in a roundworm, a fly, a mouse, and a human to better understand how the brain processes alcohol. They suggest that the way the brain processes alcohol is highly related to how the brain processes anesthetics, and that the brain uses a similar set of genes for both. They also explain that forward mutagenesis, a technique that creates new mutations, has been used to identify genes that affect behavior in mice. One of these mutations, called Lightweight, was found to be caused by a mutation in a gene that is similar to a gene found in roundworms that is important for processing anesthetics. The authors suggest that the Lightweight mutation may be responsible for the way some people are more susceptible to the effects of alcohol.
This article is about the immune response of mosquitoes to malaria parasites. Malaria remains a major disease and killing parasite around the world, and researchers are working on many ways to stop it. One approach is to use mosquitoes that have an immune response that is better able to kill the parasite. The study looked at the immune system of mosquitoes and how it responds to malaria parasites. This study found that a certain part of the immune system of mosquitoes, called the immune deficiency (Imd) pathway, plays a major role in killing the parasite. The study also found that certain genes in the Imd pathway are important for killing the parasite and that different parts of the parasite life cycle are vulnerable to the mosquito immune response. The study also looked at how the mosquito gut bacteria play a role in the mosquito immune response to the parasite. Overall, the study provides important information about how the Imd pathway in mosquitoes can be used to help stop malaria.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMMSCs ) are adult stem cells that can divide and form various cells in the lab. They can also help with tissue healing by releasing cytokines, chemokines, growth factors and genetic material (such as miRNAs). BMMSCs can also fight bacteria and are being used in some treatments to help injured tissues heal. Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a disease that causes fibrosis in the lungs. Treatment with antifungal drugs can control the infection but not the fibrosis. Some treatments have been shown to reduce fibrosis in animal models of PCM. However, using some of these treatments may increase the risk of complications, so new treatments are needed. The goal of this study was to see if BMMSCs could help with fibrosis in PCM patients. Unfortunately, the results showed that BMMSCs made the fibrosis worse, and not better.
Phlebotomine sand flies transmit Leishmaniasis, which is a disease that affects humans and dogs. Researchers are studying the seasonal patterns of Phlebotomine sand flies over several years in different parts of Europe and Africa to better understand how the disease is transmitted and how it may be affected by climate change. The researchers found that the seasonal patterns of Phlebotomine sand flies vary depending on the species and the location. They also found that some species are active during the cooler months, which could increase the risk of transmission during those times. Overall, the study provides important information on the seasonal patterns of Phlebotomine sand flies and how they may be affected by climate change, which can help researchers develop better strategies to prevent and control Leishmaniasis.
Orientia tsutsugamushi is a bacterium that causes scrub typhus, a serious disease with symptoms including fever, lymphadenopathy, rash and eschar. Scrub typhus is prevalent in Asia-Pacific regions and can be difficult to diagnose because the initial symptoms are often shared with other acute febrile illnesses. O. tsutsugamushi is transmitted to humans by trombiculid mites, which infest the areas where humans live and work. No vaccine has been effective in generating protective immunity against this infection, despite efforts to develop one. The O. tsutsugamushi genome has several repetitive sequences, including genes for conjugative type IV secretion systems and genes that exploit integrin-mediated signaling and the actin cytoskeleton to invade cells. Once inside the cell, O. tsutsugamushi moves along microtubules to the microtubule-organizing center in a dynein-dependent manner. O. tsutsugamushi infects peritoneal mesothelial cells, macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes in experimental animals. In humans, O. tsutsugamushi has been detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with acute scrub typhus. The bacterium induces large changes in gene transcription in naïve human monocytes, including genes involved in type I IFN pathway and genes involved in apoptosis. These in vitro results were related to the expression of genes involved in the immune response in patients with scrub typhus. The study highlights the role of IFN-mediated monocyte activation in the pathogenesis of scrub typhus.
This research investigates how insects remember the spatial information needed to navigate back home. Researchers know that insects can use different types of information, such as landmarks and visual memories, to guide their movements. However, it is still unclear if insects store additional spatial information with their visual memories, such as a vector or sequence of vectors. The researchers used mathematical models to simulate how ants might remember the route they took to return home. They tested their model by having a simulated ant navigate through a maze and then retrace its route. The researchers found that their model was able to replicate many features of ant navigation, such as the ability to use multiple visual memories without needing to know which memory is the correct one to use. They believe that the neural architecture of the ant's memory center, called the mushroom body, could be the substrate for this type of navigation. To test this, they used a previously developed model of how olfactory memories are stored in the mushroom body of fruit flies and adapted it to simulate how visual memories might be stored. They found that their model was able to successfully simulate how ants navigate back home. They believe that their model provides a plausible explanation for how ants are able to navigate back home, but they acknowledge that further research is needed to fully understand the underlying neural mechanisms.
Plants and bacteria have been competing against each other for billions of years. Plants have developed sophisticated defense systems to protect themselves from bacterial infections. They use a two-layer defense system - pattern-triggered immunity (PTI) and effector-triggered immunity (ETI). PTI involves the recognition of microbial patterns, while ETI involves the detection of pathogen effectors. Recently, it was discovered that Arabidopsis plants shed their cauline leaves, which are attached to the stem without a petiole, as a defense mechanism against bacterial infections. This abscission response can be triggered by bacteria causing either disease or effector-triggered immunity. The abscission signal pathway originally elucidated in floral organs is necessary for this defense response. Additionally, the defense hormone salicylic acid (SA) likely regulates leaf shedding.
The visual system is responsible for detecting moving images and computing their direction and speed. This information is used to predict the trajectory of moving objects and to determine their motion relative to the environment. Motion detection is an important class of computational problems in neuroscience. DSGCs are cells in the retina that are responsible for detecting the direction of image motion. It was shown that DSGCs receive DS input and that SACs provide input to DSGCs. SACs generate DS Ca2+ signals in their dendrites. Dendritic sectors can be activated independently, and the strongest Ca2+ increases are in the distal portions of the dendrites. It was proposed that dendrite-intrinsic electrotonics and lateral inhibition are the mechanisms for dendritic DS in SACs. However, passive models are not able to account for the properties of SAC DS, and active conductances or strong interactions between inhibitory and excitatory synaptic inputs are likely involved. To investigate further, whole-cell recording, two-photon imaging, and compartmental modeling were used. It was shown that DS in SACs can be generated by a dendrite-autonomous mechanism that relies on active conductances and a somatodendritic voltage gradient.
Infections can happen when as few as 10 cells of certain bacteria or viruses enter the body, but this number varies greatly depending on the type of pathogen. Some pathogens produce molecules that help them to evade the immune system, allowing them to grow and reproduce. If these molecules work locally, near the pathogen itself, then only a few of them are needed. But if they work at a distance, then many more are needed. In this study, researchers compared 43 different species of pathogens to see if this idea was correct. They used special methods to control for the fact that some pathogens may be more closely related and therefore have similar traits not because of any biological connection, but because they share a common ancestor. The results showed that pathogens with molecules that work at a distance require more cells to infect a host, and that they are also more likely to be virulent and cause harm to the host.
This research is looking into the miRNAs in the parasite worms that cause schistosomiasis, a disease affecting more than 200 million people worldwide. MiRNAs are small molecules that regulate the expression of other genes, and they play an important role in the development of organisms. This research has identified a family of miRNAs that seem to be particularly important during the transition from juvenile to adult schistosome worms. These miRNAs target genes that are involved in transcription, signaling, and stem cell maintenance. Some of these targets are differentially expressed between mature and immature female worms, suggesting a role in sexual maturation or sexual reproduction. Overall, this research provides insight into the molecular mechanisms that regulate the development and sexual maturation of schistosome worms, which may have important implications for developing new strategies to treat and prevent schistosomiasis.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) is a severe and potentially deadly virus. It causes fever, headache, and respiratory problems such as cough, shortness of breath, and pneumonia. The virus is highly contagious and led to a global pandemic in 2003. The virus is caused by SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV), a type of coronavirus that shares similar genome structure with other coronaviruses. It has been previously assigned to a group of coronaviruses called CoV-2b. However, it is now considered that SARS-CoV originated in horseshoe bats, with civets acting as the intermediate amplifying and transmitting host. Recently, four new strains of SARS-related coronavirus (SARSr-CoV) have been identified from Chinese horseshoe bats, and two of these strains have been successfully cultured in vitro. These new strains are similar to SARS-CoV in the S gene, the part of the virus that codes for the protein that binds to human cells, and they replicate efficiently in primary human airway cells. Despite this evidence, there is still a gap in our understanding of how and where SARS-CoV originated from bat reservoirs. Therefore, a team of researchers conducted a 5-year longitudinal surveillance of bat SARSr-CoVs in a single cave in Yunnan Province, China. They identified 15 new strains of SARSr-CoV, 11 of which were closely related to SARS-CoV. The researchers also evaluated the efficiency of human ACE2 usage and the functions of accessory genes ORF8 and 8a for some of the newly identified strains.
Soil-transmitted helminths (STHs) are parasites that live in the intestines of people and animals, causing infections that can lead to various health problems. The main way to treat these infections is by taking anthelmintic drugs. However, overuse of these drugs can lead to resistance in the parasites, making it harder to treat them. Currently, one of the best ways to detect resistance in STHs is by using a test that measures the reduction in the number of eggs in the feces after treatment. However, a recent study found that egg production in hookworms, a type of STH, actually increased after treatment in dogs, despite the removal of a significant portion of the adult worm burden. This suggests that the reduced worm density after treatment may have removed the density-dependent constraints on egg production, leading to an increase in egg output. This could make it harder to detect resistance in STH infections using the egg reduction test. Therefore, it is important to be aware of this potential issue when interpreting the results of this test.
The development of the mammalian lung is a complex process that requires many different signaling pathways to work together. Heparan sulfate (HS) is a type of sugar that helps these signaling pathways work together. Researchers have made mice that lack Ext1, a gene needed to make HS. They found that the lung development of these mice was delayed and their lungs had many defects. They also found that SHH, a signaling molecule that is important for lung development, was not working properly in the mice. This led to changes in the growth of the lung buds. The researchers found that the HS in the epithelium was needed to make sure that SHH was working properly. Without HS, SHH was not able to signal properly and this led to changes in the development of the lungs. These changes were likely due to changes in the growth of the lung buds.
The paper "Detecting genome rearrangements in tumors using paired-end sequencing" presents a strategy for discovering cancer fusion genes through the use of paired-end sequencing. The paper describes a method for identifying genomic rearrangements in tumor samples by analyzing the mapped locations of end-sequence pairs. The authors provide formulas for calculating the probability of fusion between two genes based on the distribution of clone lengths and the number of mapped clones. They demonstrate that even with current sequencing technology, it is possible to detect most fusion genes with a very low number of reads, and that next-generation sequencers have the potential to detect rearrangements with a very high probability and localize breakpoints to intervals of only a few hundred base pairs. Overall, the paper highlights the potential of paired-end sequencing for understanding cancer genome organization and discovering new fusion genes.
Chemotaxis is the ability of cells to move in a specific direction in response to a chemical gradient. This ability is found in many different types of cells, including bacteria and amoebae. The process of chemotaxis involves three interrelated steps: motility, gradient sensing, and polarization. In fast-moving amoeboid cells, such as social amoebae and human neutrophils, motility comes from the periodic extension of actin-rich pseudopods. Gradient sensing is the ability to interpret the chemical gradient and direct intracellular proteins to the area of highest concentration. Polarization is the tendency for cells to have an elongated shape with distinct front and back edges. In response to a changing gradient, polarized cells turn in the direction of the new gradient. A new model of chemotaxis has been developed that combines a previously described excitable network with cytoskeleton-mediated deformations and polarization. The model can account for a wide range of reported observations about chemotaxing cells.
The study aimed to understand the role of TDRD6 protein in the regulation of spliceosome maturation and mRNA splicing during spermatogenesis. In spermatids, TDRD6 was found to be essential for the formation of spliceosome. The study revealed a male germ cell-specific pathway of spliceosome assembly. The findings of this study provide new insights into the understanding of spliceosome regulation during spermatogenesis.
The paper proposes a new method for analyzing colonization dynamics in bacterial populations. Currently, researchers use genetic distance between isolates to determine whether they are from the same colonization event or not. However, the authors of the paper present a fully Bayesian model that allows for the determination of the probability that two strains should be considered the same. This model takes into account the genetic distance between isolates and the time between the sampling of the isolates. The authors show that their model is more accurate and robust than the previous methods. They also demonstrate the usefulness of their model by analyzing a large collection of longitudinally collected methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) genomes obtained through a clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of an MRSA decolonization protocol. The authors believe that their method will enable studies of the characteristics that impact colonization in the presence and absence of interventions.
Auxin is an important hormone that is involved in the formation of new organs in plants. This hormone is transported from cell to cell by carriers called PIN proteins, which are located at the cell plasma membranes. When these carriers are oriented in the same direction, they create fluxes of auxin that can lead to local differences in auxin concentration, which can then be interpreted by the plant as signals to form new organs. Two different hypotheses have been proposed to explain how PIN proteins are oriented in plants: the flux-based hypothesis and the concentration-based hypothesis. Using computer simulations, we found that the flux-based hypothesis is able to explain the formation of new organs in a realistic way, while the concentration-based hypothesis is unable to do so. This suggests that the flux-based hypothesis could provide a unifying principle for the guidance of auxin fluxes in the plant.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as "black fever," is a parasite-borne disease that affects the liver, spleen, and bone marrow. It can lead to death if left untreated. The rK39 is a widely used antigen for VL serodiagnosis, but it has limitations. A new antigen called rK28 has been engineered to improve its sensitivity, but it still needs to be tested. Researchers have used DNA sequencing technology to identify proteins that are recognized by IgG1 in people with VL. They have also developed a rapid diagnostic test (RDT) that can detect IgG1 in people with VL. The test will be cheaper and more robust than current RDTs.
Granulomas are formed when there is an interaction between the host's immune system and a persistent non-degradable antigen. There are different types of granulomas, depending on the type of immune response that occurs. Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is a skin disease caused by a parasite called Leishmania. There are different types of CL, and they are often diagnosed based on the appearance of the skin biopsy. In some cases, the skin biopsy may look like a tuberculoid granuloma, which is a type of granuloma that is characterized by a lack of necrosis. This can make it difficult to diagnose CL, especially if someone has also been infected with other granulomatous diseases like tuberculosis or leprosy. In this study, the authors looked at a large group of people with molecularly proven CL to see how often they had tuberculoid granulomas. They found that a significant number of people had this type of granuloma, which could make it difficult to diagnose CL. The study also looked at other factors that might be associated with having a tuberculoid granuloma, like the type of Leishmania parasite causing the infection and where the person got infected. This information could be helpful for doctors and other healthcare providers who are trying to diagnose CL in people who might have a tuberculoid granuloma.
Insulin resistance and inadequate insulin production are the main causes of type 2 diabetes, which is often associated with obesity. The risk of developing type 2 diabetes is also partly due to genetics, and many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been found to be associated with the disease. However, little is known about the functional consequences of these SNPs at the molecular, cellular, and physiological levels. Obese mouse strains, such as Lepob and Lepdb mutations, have been used to study the pathophysiology and genetics of type 2 diabetes. However, the diabetic phenotype in these strains is not solely due to the mutation, and other factors, such as genetics, play a role. Lean mice may carry alleles that are either diabetogenic or protective against diabetes. Recently, two genes have been identified that contribute to the development of diabetes in obese strains. The Lisch-like gene has been suggested to be involved in the development of insulin-producing cells, and a variant of this gene has been found to be responsible for the diabetogenic effect of the DBA background in mice carrying the adipogenic db mutation. In a previous study, we identified a QTL called Nidd/SJL that aggravated and accelerated diabetes on distal chromosome 4 when crossed with the lean SJL strain. This QTL has similar chromosomal position to a previously identified diabetogenic QTL, Nidd1, which was found in an outcross of NZO with NON. The human syntenic region of Nidd1 and Nidd/SJL (human chromosome 1) contains a QTL for reduced insulin secretion in the Pima Indian population. Recent metaanalysis of diabetogenic mouse QTL identified distal chromosome 4 as one of seven consensus regions. Thus, Nidd/SJL is a prime target for positional cloning of a novel mouse diabetes gene.
The article explains how scientists are trying to understand the different types of cells that make up our immune system. There are many different types of cells that make up the immune system, each with its own specific job. Scientists are trying to understand how these cells are created and how they change over time. They are using a type of math to help them understand this process. This math allows them to model the different cells and how they interact with each other. They are finding that the different cells in the immune system interact in specific ways to create different types of cells. They are also finding that these different cells can change over time depending on the environment they are in. This means that the same cell can change its job depending on where it goes or what it encounters. This is important because it helps us understand how our immune system works and how it protects us from things like infections and diseases.
Scientists have been studying how animal transcription factors bind to DNA in the genome. They have found that many transcription factors bind to thousands of DNA regions throughout the genome. However, most of these regions are not bound by the transcription factors in vivo, which has been attributed to several mechanisms such as competition and cooperative interactions. The scientists are now using a model to predict how these mechanisms influence the binding of transcription factors in vivo. Their results support a model that suggests that animal transcription factors bind to DNA without the aid of direct cooperative interactions with other proteins. The model also suggests that the inhibition of DNA binding by chromatin structure is the dominant force that modifies the intrinsic DNA specificity of transcription factors. This explains why animal factors show widespread and overlapping binding.
Cell proliferation is a critical event in organ formation and is regulated by multiple signals. These signals help cells determine whether to continue proliferating or to induce cell cycle arrest and differentiation. The way cells integrate these signals to control the cell cycle machinery is a crucial issue that has been studied extensively. The basic Helix-Loop-Helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors are key regulatory molecules that help control cell cycle control, cell lineage commitment, and cell differentiation. In Drosophila, the Da and Emc proteins are the only representatives of classes I and V, respectively. These proteins interact and regulate cell fate decisions. Recent studies show that Emc functions as a negative feedback regulator of da expression. Changes in the expression of Emc by different signals modulate the levels of Da, which is a transcriptional repressor of String, a main activator of mitosis. Our study shows that Da functions as a transcriptional repressor of String, thereby regulating the G2/M transition in the cell cycle. Our study indicates that Id factors regulate G1-S transition in vertebrate cells and our data suggest that E proteins can also control the G2/M transition in conjunction with Id factors.
The article introduces a comprehensive analysis pipeline to investigate the effects of filamentous growth in yeast. Filamentous growth is a stress response of yeast cells, where they form elongated and connected multicellular structures called filaments. The study generates phosphoproteomic data from a subset of kinases involved in filamentous growth, and uses a custom analysis pipeline to identify candidate proteins and signaling pathways. The pipeline includes phosphopeptide meta-analysis, correlation network analysis, causal relationship discovery, and validation by literature mining. The study successfully applies the pipeline to analyze the data and identify candidate proteins that can be further intervened and studied in the future.
In this study, researchers investigated the effects of exercise on the brain of people with dementia. They looked at changes in brain structure and function using a variety of imaging techniques. The study found that regular exercise improved both cognitive function and brain structure in people with dementia, suggesting that exercise may be a useful tool in treating dementia.
EPEC and EHEC are serious causes of human diarrhea and death, so researchers use the natural mouse pathogen Citrobacter rodentium to model these infections. C. rodentium causes A/E (attachment and effacement) lesions, where bacteria attach to and colonize the intestinal lining. These lesions cause inflammation and hyperplasia (uncontrolled cell growth) of the colon. Th17 and ILC3 cells produce IL-17 and IL-22 respectively, to help control the infection. The gut microbiota also helps control the infection by preventing C. rodentium from colonizing the gut. The study showed that early C. rodentium colonies are small and don't cause much damage, but they trigger an innate immune response that prevents new damage from occurring. The innate immune response helps prevent the formation of new A/E lesions, which is important for controlling the infection. The study shows that these early colonies are important for understanding how the host and bacteria interact during infection, which could lead to new treatments or prevention strategies.
Malaria parasites have a special type of gene called the var gene, which is responsible for the diversity of the malaria parasite in humans. Each parasite has a different set of var genes, and researchers have studied how these sets of var genes overlap between different malaria parasites. The Sørenson-Dice coefficient is a common way to measure the overlap between two sets of var genes, but it has a flaw in that it underestimates the true overlap between two sets of var genes. This paper introduces a new way to measure overlap between two sets of var genes using Bayesian inference, which is a way of using probability to make predictions. This method gives a more accurate estimate of the true overlap between two sets of var genes, and also gives uncertainty intervals, which show how much the estimate might vary from study to study. The paper then re-evaluates past studies using the Sørenson-Dice coefficient and shows that the new method gives different results. The paper also shows how many samples of var genes are needed to get a good estimate of the true overlap. Finally, the paper provides a web tool and open-source code so that other researchers can use the new method.
Eukaryotic protein kinases (EPKs) are important for many biological processes and are associated with many diseases. PKA is the second EPK that was discovered and it has been used as a model for understanding EPK structure and function. EPKs have a catalytic core that allows for the transfer of the γ-phosphate of ATP to a protein substrate. The catalytic core is made up of two lobes, the N-lobe and the C-lobe. The R-spine is a key component of the catalytic core and it is what allows for the transfer of the γ-phosphate. The R-spine is anchored to the αF-helix through a highly conserved aspartate (RS0) and it is supported by an ensemble of conserved hydrophobic residues referred to as the Shell. When the R-spine is assembled, the active state of the EPK toggles between open, intermediate, and closed conformations as it traverses the catalytic cycle. The binding of ATP initiates the transition from the open to the closed conformation. The αC-helix, αC-helix, and β4-strand all have a negatively charged electrostatic surface, so two magnesium ions are required to fully neutralize the negative charge of the phosphates. The Glycine-rich Loop of the N-lobe seals the active site chamber in the closed conformation. When the substrate is positioned, phosphoryl transfer is achieved. Finally, the phosphorylated substrate and adenosine diphosphate are released and the EPK transitions back to an open conformation, poised to bind another ATP molecule. The β3K-αCE salt bridge is required for connecting the αC-helix with the β-sheet region of the N-lobe during the catalytic cycle and it is what allows for the neutralization of the negative charge of αCE. In the absence of the salt bridge, the mechanism can be restored by strengthening the hydrophobicity of the R-spine and Shell residues. The positive charge of β3K is required for neutralizing the negative charge of αCE, and in the absence of β3K, the misalignment of the γ-phosphate can cause inhibition of phosphoryl transfer. Removing both β3K and αCE simultaneously partially restores catalytic activity.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a disease caused by worms and spread by mosquitoes. The World Health Organization (WHO) has a program to eliminate LF, and they recommend using a strategy of mass drug administration (MDA) and morbidity management. The program has been successful, but it can be hard to tell if LF transmission is still happening after MDA. The WHO recommends using Transmission Assessment Surveys (TAS) to evaluate the success of MDA. TAS involve testing children aged 6-7 years old to see if there is still transmission. However, a recent study found that TAS of children aged 6-7 years old may not be sensitive enough to detect low-level transmission. This means that TAS may not always accurately tell if there is still LF transmission. This study highlights the need for more sensitive ways to evaluate the success of MDA.
In vertebrates, sex determination occurs in two phases: primary and secondary. Primary sex determination is the process in which an animal decides if it will develop as a male or a female. This can be controlled by a master regulator (like Sry in mammals), defined environmental conditions (like temperature in reptiles), or a complex polygenic mechanism. After primary sex determination, the animal goes through a period of secondary sex determination, in which it develops sex-specific characteristics. In some animals, sex can be reversed, such as in teleost fish. However, even in animals that do not normally switch sex, there is evidence that the process of sex determination and differentiation is not irreversible once established, and instead it requires constant maintenance via sex-specific transcription factors. For example, in mice, the male-specific transcription factor Dmrt1 is expressed in both germ cells and somatic gonad cells of the testis, and conditional deletion of Dmrt1 in postnatal testes results in a downregulation of testis-specific genes and an upregulation of ovary-specific genes. In zebrafish, primary sex determination appears to be regulated by a ZZ/ZW genetic system, though the gene involved has not been identified. By contrast, several studies have concluded that the most commonly used domesticated zebrafish strains lack any major genetic sex determinant, and instead rely on a polygenic system that is strain dependent. Even in wild strains where the W chromosome is necessary for female primary sex determination, it is not absolutely correlated with female development, as a fraction of ZW individuals develop as males. These results show that while a genetic sex determining system can strongly influence the outcome of sex determination in zebrafish, it is not an absolute prerequisite. In addition, there are systems other than dominant sex-determining loci that can influence or override a genetic sex-determining strategy. Oocytes are required for primary female sex determination in zebrafish. Recent work from our lab has demonstrated that oocytes are also required throughout adult life to maintain the female differentiated state. In vertebrates, bidirectional paracrine signaling between the oocyte and the surrounding granulosa cells is critical for the proper development and function of the follicle. Oocytes receive signals and nutrients from follicle cells throughout their development while the oocyte in turn signals to surrounding follicle cells to regulate their function. The oocyte is deficient in producing key enzymes necessary for glycolysis and cholesterol biosynthesis and instead produces signals that upregulate these pathways in granulosa cells, which in turn provide these essential compounds to the oocyte via gap junctions. Two of these oocyte-produced signals that regulate granulosa cell development are Growth differentiation factor 9 ( Gdf9 ) and Bone morphogenetic protein 15 ( Bmp15 ), which are closely related members of the TGF-β superfamily of signaling molecules and are expressed primarily by the oocyte in mammals and zebrafish. In mammals, Gdf9 and Bmp15 regulate granulosa cell development and estrogen production. In zebrafish, Gdf9 and Bmp15 are also required for female sexual development and maintenance of the female differentiated state. Cyp19a1 aromatase is the enzyme responsible for estrogen production by the ovary in mammals and zebrafish. In zebrafish, there are two genes that encode a Cyp19a1 aromatase, called cyp19a1a and cyp19a1b, which are products of the teleost-specific whole genome duplication event. In mammals, Cyp19a1 is expressed most highly in the granulosa cells of the oocyte follicle in the ovary and at significantly lower levels in Leydig cells of the testis. By contrast, in zebrafish, cyp19a1a appears to be restricted to the ovary while cyp19a1b is most highly expressed in the brain. In the present study, we test whether the oocyte-expressed signaling molecules Gdf9 and Bmp15 have any role in female sex determination or maintenance of female sex differentiation in zebrafish. We find that bmp15 mutant females initially have normal development but during the juvenile stage, oocytes are degraded after they arrest at early stages, and the premeiotic germ cells switch to a spermatogenic program as the gonad transforms to a fully functional testis. Consequently, all bmp15 mutant adults are fertile males. Additionally, we find that in wild-type ovaries, cyp19a1a is initially expressed in theca cells, but not granulosa cells that surround early stage oocytes, but then is upregulated in granulosa cells that surround stage II oocytes. In bmp15 mutants, by contrast, cyp19a1a expression in theca cells is apparently normal, but we do not detect its expression in granulosa cells. Together, these results argue that bmp15 functions to maintain female sex determination, in part by promoting cyp19a1a expression and therefore estrogen production by granulosa cells. To our knowledge, this is the first instance in a vertebrate of the identification of a germ cell–derived signal that is required for maintaining a specific sexual phenotype.
Hox genes are responsible for patterning the body axis in many different animals, including humans. They do this by controlling the expression of a large number of downstream genes that have diverse effects on morphology and differentiation. Hox genes are expressed in broad domains along the body axis, but they affect target gene expression in specific sub-domains within these regions. This precision is achieved through the interaction of Hox proteins with enhancers and promoters and with other transcription factors. In this study, the authors analyzed the regulation of rpr, a Hox target gene, in Drosophila. They found that eight transcription factors work together with the Hox protein Dfd to regulate rpr expression in the appropriate spatial and temporal pattern. This study shows that even small Hox-dependent enhancers are complex and integrate diverse regulatory inputs to achieve precise expression of Hox target genes.
Scientists have discovered that plants have a two-layered immune system to protect themselves from infections. The first layer is made up of specialized proteins on the plant's surface that recognize microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) from pathogens. This triggers a host transcriptional response that stops the growth of many microbes. However, some pathogens can suppress this response. The second layer of the immune system is activated by these pathogens and is dependent on NB-LRR proteins, which are specific to plants. When activated, these proteins trigger robust defense responses, including localized hypersensitive cell death. Some NB-LRR proteins work in pairs, with one being a sensor and the other being a helper. The scientist ADR1-L2 is one of these proteins. They recently discovered that ADR1-L2 functions downstream of the production of reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI) and upstream of salicylic acid (SA) accumulation, in both basal defense and MAMP-triggered SA accumulation. In addition, ADR1-L2 can also work as a helper protein during some, but not all, effector-mediated activation of specific sensor NB-LRR proteins. Surprisingly, none of the ADR1-L2 functions above required an intact P-loop. The scientist also suggested that ADR1-L2 might have as yet undefined P-loop dependent, "canonical" functions that, in the absence of the specific effector required for activation, are difficult to define. They used a mutant of ADR1-L2, ADR1-L2D484V, to define the genetic requirements of putative canonical functions of ADR1-L2 in the absence of an effector known to activate it. They found that this autoactivity was P-loop dependent, downstream of AtRbohD-mediated ROI production, partially dependent on SA synthesis, and negatively regulated by EDS1 and AtMC1. They also presented a model for the interaction of EDS1, LSD1, and ADR1-L2, showing that these proteins function in both SA-dependent and SA-independent feedback regulatory loops that are interconnected.
DNA methylation is important for plant growth and development. In Arabidopsis, there are several enzymes involved in maintaining DNA methylation at different types of DNA sites. These enzymes work together with noncoding RNA to silence genes and maintain chromatin structure. In this study, the authors discovered that a protein called MORC6/DMS11 is involved in transcriptional silencing. They found that MORC6/DMS11 interacts with several enzymes involved in DNA methylation, as well as with a protein called IDN2. IDN2 is involved in transcriptional silencing through a process called RdDM. The authors also found that MORC6/DMS11 interacts with a complex of proteins called SWI/SNF, which helps change the structure of DNA and promote transcriptional silencing. Together, the authors suggest that MORC6/DMS11 and IDN2 work together with SWI/SNF to silence genes and maintain chromatin structure.
In this study, the authors used zebrafish as a model organism to study the role of heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) function in phenotype modification. Hsp90 is an environmentally responsive chaperone that helps with the maturation and folding of newly synthesized proteins. It also helps with the function of regulatory molecules such as kinases and steroid hormone receptors. The authors found that Hsp90 plays a significant role in modifying previously cryptic genetic variants and causing overt phenotypes. They observed a wide range of anomalies such as microcephaly, neural tube defects, cleft lip and palate, and heart malformations. These anomalies were dependent on the strain used and the stage of development at which the Hsp90 inhibitor was administered. Breeding studies indicated that the phenotypes were caused by underlying cryptic genetic variation. The authors also found that Hsp90 inhibition could modify the severity of some already characterized developmental anomalies. This study provides a molecular model for Hsp90 modulation of phenotype at the organismal level.
N-terminal acetylation is a common and important modification of proteins in eukaryotes. It involves two steps: first, methionine, the first amino acid in the protein, is removed from the nascent polypeptide chain by methionine aminopeptidases. Second, the amino-terminus is acetylated by N-terminal acetyl transferases (NATs). In Drosophila, methionine removal and acetylation usually occur co-translationally on the nascent polypeptide chain. This study uses data from shotgun proteomics and COFRADIC enrichment of N-terminal peptides to show that acetylation is a common event in Drosophila proteins. The study also identifies new alternative translation initiation sites and splice variants, as well as the (X)PX rule, which prevents N-terminal acetylation. This rule can be used to genetically modify proteins to study the biological relevance of N-terminal acetylation.
Researchers have studied the enzyme RNAP (RNA polymerase), which makes RNA in all living things. They have learned that RNAP has different parts that work together to make RNA. The researchers found that the RNA made by RNAP III is important for the growth and development of cells. They also found that the RNA made by RNAP III needs to be recycled quickly so that it can make more RNA. The researchers found that RNAP III has two ways to stop making RNA: one way is for RNAP III to stop on its own, and the other way is for another protein to help RNAP III stop. They found that the protein RPC1 is important for RNAP III to stop making RNA. They also found that a protein called C11 helps RNAP III stop making RNA. The researchers found that the protein C11 has a special part that helps RNAP III stop making RNA, and they found other parts of RPC1 that also help RNAP III stop making RNA. The researchers found that the protein C11 has a special part that helps RNAP III stop making RNA, and they found other parts of RPC1 that also help RNAP III stop making RNA. They also found that a mutation in RPC1 that helps RNAP III stop making RNA is also found in humans with cancer.
Protein interactions are important in signaling pathways. Signaling pathways involve the phosphorylation of certain proteins. This allows the recognition of these proteins by other proteins that contain specific domains. These domains have a preference for certain types of phosphorylated proteins. These preferences can vary between different domains. Changing the specificity of a domain can alter the behavior of a cell. Some changes are associated with diseases. Scientists use libraries of peptides to determine the preference of each domain. They use this information to make predictions about interactions between proteins. However, it is difficult and impractical to determine the binding specificity of all domains using libraries. Scientists have developed computational methods to predict the specificity of each domain. These methods use the structure of each domain and the sequence of the peptides to make predictions. These predictions are good at predicting in vitro interactions. They also work well for in vivo interactions. Scientists used the computational method to predict the specificity of nine human SH2 domains. They compared their predictions to known interactions to test their accuracy. The predictions made by the computational method were good. They predicted many known interactions. The predictions also made many new interactions that could be tested in the future. Scientists used the predictions to create a network of interactions. They validated the network using several methods. They used the network to make predictions about new interactions. These predictions could be tested in the future.
Amyloid fibrils are natural protein structures that help prevent the formation of more toxic amorphous or intermediate structures. However, aberrant amyloid formation can lead to proteotoxicity, a condition that damages nerve cells and causes diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Protein complexes that dissolve amyloidogenic structures, known as disaggregases, have been discovered in recent years. These disaggregases can help reduce toxicity and potentially treat diseases. One type of disaggregase, called PPIases, can twist proline residues in proteins to change their shape and may help dissolve amyloid fibrils. A specific type of PPIase, called CyP40, has been found to dissolve amyloid fibrils in a proline-dependent manner, meaning that it needs proline residues to work. Studies have also shown that CyP40 can improve neuronal health and cognitive function when transduced in a tauopathic brain. Overall, these findings suggest that CyP40 may be a potential therapeutic intervention for tauopathies and other amyloidogenic disorders.
The article by [16] explains the process of heterocyst differentiation and pattern formation in cyanobacteria. Cyanobacteria are single-celled organisms that form long filaments of photosynthetic cells under nutrient-rich conditions. Under nutrient-poor conditions, a subset of these cells differentiate into heterocysts, which are terminally differentiated nitrogen-fixing cells. This process involves the activation of certain genes and the suppression of others, resulting in the formation of a heterocyst pattern that remains constant regardless of cell division. This process is driven by a complex regulatory network involving cell-to-cell interactions and protein diffusion. The article presents a mathematical model that connects the diffusion of combined nitrogen along the filament with the dynamics of the underlying genetic circuit of each single cyanobacterium. The model captures both the development of heterocyst patterns and their maintenance. The article also reveals the important role that noise plays in the onset of differentiation by enabling the development of characteristic heterocyst patterns for a wide range of model parameters.
Onchocerciasis is a vector-borne parasitic disease caused by a very thin worm, Onchocerca volvulus, that is transmitted by black flies belonging to the Simulium species. Onchocerciasis mainly affects the poorest population in Africa, leading to debilitating eyes and skin lesions, and having negative psychosocial and economic impact. Ivermectin, which is used to treat onchocerciasis, is only effective on Onchocerca microfilariae and has no known lethal effect on adult worms, which reproductive lifespan is estimated to be 14 years. Therefore, ivermectin treatment must be repeated annually for at least 15 years without reinfection to achieve the onchocerciasis elimination goal. However, adherence to mass drug administrations (MDA) is an issue in onchocerciasis control and elimination, especially in communities with optimal coverage where there are "a fairly large pool of people who had taken in less than three times in the 8 years since the programme began". The challenge of adherence is enhanced by the fact that in the frame of MDA, all inhabitants in a selected zone have to take the drug, even if those who are apparently in good health. Therefore, it is important to understand the factors related to compliance with ivermectin in order to improve adherence and achieve onchocerciasis elimination.
Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) have identified many genetic variants associated with human traits and diseases. However, these variants only explain a small fraction of disease risk. Epigenetic modifications have also been suggested to play a role in disease development. Epigenome-wide association studies (EWAS) have been performed to identify associations between epigenetic modifications and disease traits. The role of epigenetic variation in disease development is unclear. This study aimed to investigate genetic and epigenetic contribution to variation in disease-related biomarkers, including inflammation, cancer, and cardiovascular disease. A highly sensitive and specific Proximity Extension Assay (PEA) was used to measure the abundance of 144 established or potential protein biomarkers in plasma from a population-based cohort. Data from over 10 million genetic variants and DNA methylation levels at 470,000 CpG sites were integrated with the protein biomarker data. The study aimed to identify associations between genetic variants and biomarker levels, associations between DNA methylation and biomarkers, and investigate whether genetic variants regulate DNA methylation levels or vice versa.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are a type of immune cell that fight infections by directly killing infected cells and releasing inflammatory cytokines. These cells detect infected cells through a variety of receptors, which determine whether to kill or not. When enough activation is reached, NK cells release cytotoxic granules that induce apoptosis (programmed cell death) of the target cell. NK cells also secrete inflammatory cytokines such as interferon-gamma ( IFN-γ ) and tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ). NK cells play a vital role in controlling viral infections and promoting host defense. Some viruses, such as herpesviruses, have evolved to evade detection and elimination by NK cells. In this study, the authors found that human alphaherpesviruses, specifically varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) and herpes simplex virus type 1 ( HSV-1 ), can directly infect and inhibit NK cell function. This includes inhibiting the release of cytotoxic granules and inflammatory cytokines. These findings reveal that human alphaherpesviruses target multiple aspects of NK cell anti-viral function for immune evasion.
Apparent motion (AM) is a type of illusory motion that can be perceived when two stimuli are presented alternately at two different locations. Researchers have found that humans perceive AM because of responses in neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) to stimuli presented along the AM path. However, it is unclear whether AM masking is the result of activation or suppression in V1. Liu et al. did not find any activity in V1 during the percept of moving concentric rings, suggesting that AM has a late cortical locus. Other studies also report a similar lack of activation in V1. Behavioral studies support the hypothesis of AM-related activation in V1 by reporting impaired perception of stimuli presented along the path of AM. In the current study, the researchers used computational modeling to investigate the cause of AM masking. They found that a model incorporating strong suppression of responses to stimuli on the AM path captured the observed masking effects, arguing in favor of the predictive coding theory.
The paper is discussing the role of a protein called Tax in the process of activating a pathway called NF-κB. NF-κB is a protein that can turn on the expression of genes that are important for cell survival, growth, and division. The paper discusses how Tax can activate NF-κB by binding to and activating a protein called IKK, which in turn activates NF-κB. The paper also discusses how Tax can modify other proteins in cells to make it easier for these proteins to bind and activate IKK. The paper concludes by stating that Tax is an important protein in the process of activating NF-κB and that the mechanisms by which it does this are important for understanding how to treat diseases caused by HTLV-1 infection.
The number of individuals released during an alien species introduction, combined with the number of independent introduction events, can influence how well the introduced species becomes established in a new environment. Researchers have looked at how different components of propagule pressure, such as the number of individuals released or the number of independent introduction events, affect the establishment success of introduced species. These studies have shown that there is a positive relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success, but there is variation in the strength of this relationship between studies. Researchers have also found that the relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success varies depending on the spatial scale, taxonomic group, and the type of data used. Experimental studies, which use data directly measured in the field, tend to produce larger effect sizes than observational studies, which use data collected from the environment. To test the relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success, researchers have used a variety of statistical methods, including univariate and multivariate models, and log or linear transformations of propagule pressure. When researchers have analysed different ranges of propagule size or number, they have found that the relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success varies. Lastly, for experimental studies that provide raw data on establishment success, researchers have found that the shape of the relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success varies.
Interleukin-17 (IL-17) is a protein that helps fight infections and inflammation, but it can also cause autoimmune diseases. IL-17 works by binding to specific receptors on cells and controlling gene transcription. One of the ways that IL-17 does this is by attenuating (slowing down or stopping) the degradation of mRNA. This allows the cell to make more of the protein that is needed for the immune response. The protein tristetraprolin (TTP) is one of the proteins that IL-17 uses to attenuate mRNA degradation, but IL-17 can also work with other proteins to control gene transcription. In some cases, IL-17 can inhibit (stop) TTP from attenuating mRNA degradation, allowing more of the protein to be made. However, in other cases, IL-17 can promote (speed up) mRNA degradation by attenuating (slowing down or stopping) the work of another protein called AUF-1. This helps to prevent the production of too much protein, which can be harmful to the body.
Trypanosomiasis is a disease that affects both humans and animals and is spread by a parasite called tsetse. The disease is caused by different types of parasites that are transmitted to humans and animals by the tsetse fly. In humans, the disease can cause two types of sleeping sickness: one caused by T. brucei gambiense, which is more common in west and central Africa, and one caused by T. brucei rhodesiense, which is more common in east and southern Africa. In Uganda, the acute form of sleeping sickness caused by T. brucei rhodesiense has spread to six previously unaffected districts, putting an additional 1 million people at risk. The disease has been linked to the movement of cattle, which have been shown to be a reservoir for the human-infective form of T. brucei rhodesiense. In Uganda, 32 districts have reported cases of acute or chronic sleeping sickness since 2000. To examine the prevalence and distribution of T. brucei s. l. (both non-human infective T. b. brucei and human infective T. b. rhodesiense) in village cattle, samples were taken from villages that had reported a case of sleeping sickness in the six months before sample collection (defined as case villages) and from those that had never reported a case of sleeping sickness (defined as non-case villages). This approach allowed a comparison of T. brucei s. l. prevalence and presence or absence of T. b. rhodesiense in cattle between case and non-case villages.
Scientists have been studying how eukaryotic cells control when and where genes are turned on. They have found that there are different types of promoters, which are short regions of DNA near the start of a gene that control when and where it is transcribed. To turn on the gene, a group of proteins called transcription factors binds to the promoter. But this is not enough. To understand how the gene is turned on, scientists need to understand what makes a particular promoter "active" or "inactive." Scientists have found that certain proteins, such as histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs), can change the activity of a promoter by changing how tightly packed the DNA is. By studying how these proteins work together, scientists hope to better understand how the gene is turned on and controlled.
The D4Z4 repeat is a long segment of DNA that contains a copy of the DUX4 gene. The DUX4 gene codes for a double homeobox transcription factor that is expressed in the germline (the cells that make up sperm and eggs) but not in most other cells in the body. In a genetic condition called facioscapulohumeral dystrophy, or FSHD, the number of copies of the D4Z4 repeat is reduced, which can cause the DUX4 gene to be expressed in some of the body's muscles. This expression is thought to be due to an inefficient epigenetic repression, which means that the gene is turned on in only a small number of cells. This causes the muscles that are affected by FSHD to weaken and degenerate. The D4Z4 repeat array can vary in size from 11 to 100 copies, and in some people with FSHD, one copy of chromosome 4 has only 1 to 10 copies of the repeat. This is thought to be the cause of the disease, since it results in a less repressive chromatin structure, which in turn causes the DUX4 gene to be expressed in more cells. The DUX4 gene is regulated by an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that silences its expression in most somatic tissues (i.e., cells that make up the body, except for germ cells). This means that the gene is turned off in almost all cells of the body, except for the germ cells. However, in some people with FSHD, this evolutionarily conserved mechanism is less effective, which allows the gene to be expressed in a small number of cells in the muscles. This leads to the weakening and degeneration of these muscles.
Malaria is a serious health problem that causes deaths and illnesses. The researchers are trying to make a vaccine that can stop malaria. This vaccine needs to target parasite blood stages, and one candidate for this vaccine is Apical Membrane Antigen-1 (AMA1). AMA1 is a protein found on the surface of the parasite that causes malaria to enter the red blood cells. Scientists have made a vaccine from four different alleles of AMA1, which are 3D7, FVO, HB3, and W2mef, which are called Quadvax. They compared the effectiveness of this vaccine with other vaccines. They found that the Quadvax vaccine could provide broad protection against malaria, which means it can protect against many different strains of malaria. They also found that some of the antibodies generated from the Quadvax vaccine were broadly inhibitory, meaning they could inhibit many different strains of malaria. They used some antibodies generated from the Quadvax vaccine and made a chimeric protein, and they found that the antibodies could bind to the chimeric protein. This study provides important information that can help researchers develop a more effective vaccine against malaria.
In this study, researchers examined the process of asymmetric cell divisions, which is crucial for the proper development and function of various tissues in organisms. They focused on the mitotic spindle, a structure that divides the cytoplasm of a cell into two halves during cell division. They found that the spindle of the one-cell stage C. elegans embryo is moved to an asymmetric position by an unequal force on the two sides of the spindle. This force is generated by the activity of a protein complex that consists of cortical G alpha protein, mitotic spindle component LIN-5, and the posteriorly enriched activators of G protein signaling GPR-1/2. This complex recruits the microtubule motor dynein, which is essential for strong pulling forces. The study identified several molecules that are critical for this pulling force, including components of a protein complex that recruits dynein to the microtubules and promotes the handover of microtubules to dynein. The researchers also found that forces are temporally modulated during mitosis, and they speculate that a switch might exist to modulate forces and move the spindle at a precise time. They set out to test the hypothesis that mitotic progression regulates spindle displacement in an asymmetric cell division. To do this, they used the C. elegans model system to combine microscopic imaging and precise quantification of chromosome and spindle dynamics with disruption of the mitotic progression machinery. They found that anaphase-promoting complex (APC)-dependent negative regulation of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) serves a second role as a timer for spindle displacement. They demonstrated that this timing mechanism ensures that spindle assembly is completed before spindle components begin to move away from the center of the cell.
Scientists have studied how different human populations living at high altitudes have adapted to their environments over time. They have found that certain populations, such as those living in the Andes and Tibet, have unique sets of physical traits that help them live in these extreme conditions. The scientists have used genetic testing to try to identify the specific genes that may be responsible for these physical adaptations. They have also compared the genes of people who live at high altitudes with people who live at sea level to better understand the genetic basis of these differences. This research may help us understand how people adapt to new environments over time and how these adaptations are passed down to future generations.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) occur when DNA is damaged by environmental agents or cellular metabolites, and can lead to genomic instability. There are two main types of DSB repair pathways: non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR). HR involves several steps, including DNA 5'-3' end resection, repair using a homologous DNA sequence (e.g., a sister chromatid or a homologous chromosome), and the formation of various DNA structures such as inverted dimers and fold-backs. SSA is one of the HR pathways that can lead to genomic instability, including the formation of inverted dimers and fold-backs. BIR is another HR pathway that can also lead to genomic instability. In yeast cells, the choice between HR and BIR is influenced by various factors, including the type of DNA damage, chromatin structure, the extent of DSB resection, and the age of the cells. The presence of inverted repeats (IRs) in the vicinity of DSBs can also affect the choice of repair pathway. For example, IRs can promote SSA and the formation of inverted dimers, while suppressing BIR and the formation of GC. In yeast, IRs can also lead to the formation of fold-backs. The MRX/Sae2 complex can cleave fold-backs containing short hairpin loops, while the Rad1-Rad10 complex processes fold-backs with long hairpin loops. Overall, the presence of IRs near DSBs can result in the formation of various DNA structures and lead to genomic instability.
In this paper, the authors describe their efforts to develop a simple biofilm model of infection for studying the interactions between Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacterium that can cause both acute and chronic infections, and the host response during biofilm infections. To accomplish this, they used Drosophila melanogaster, a fruit fly that has gained popularity as a model organism for studying P. aeruginosa infections due to its evolutionary conservation of innate immune responses, availability of multiple genetic and molecular tools, amenability to high throughput screening, relatively low cost, and no requirements for ethical approval. The authors hypothesized that the localized infection and slower killing kinetics observed in flies that were fed P. aeruginosa, relative to flies that were pricked with a needle dipped in P. aeruginosa culture, was due to the ability of P. aeruginosa to form biofilms in the fruit fly's crop. To test this hypothesis, they compared the growth and killing kinetics of P. aeruginosa biofilms in the crop of flies that were fed P. aeruginosa to those of flies that were pricked with a needle dipped in P. aeruginosa culture. They also compared the host AMP response to both biofilm and non-biofilm infections. The authors conclude that their study has established a relevant model for the study of P. aeruginosa biofilm infections in vivo, and that the model has the potential to significantly increase our understanding of the relationship between biofilms and the host during infection.
The article you have summarized is about how different behavioral traits in animals can be caused by differences in their genetic makeup. Specifically, it focuses on the vasopressin 1a receptor gene (Avpr1a) in voles, which is responsible for how they interact with each other. The authors found that there are differences in the way Avpr1a is expressed in the brains of voles, and that this expression is caused by differences in the 5′ flanking region of the Avpr1a gene, which controls how the gene is expressed in the brain. They also found that there are differences in a repeated sequence of DNA, known as a microsatellite, in the 5′ flanking region of the Avpr1a gene that contribute to these expression differences. These expression differences were then linked to differences in the way voles interact with each other. The authors concluded that the differences in Avpr1a expression in voles are caused by both the 5′ flanking region and the microsatellite.
Transcription can cause genetic instability in eukaryotic cells, leading to increased recombination and mutagenesis. A variety of factors can influence this relationship, such as collisions between replication forks and the transcription machinery, or the formation of RNA-DNA hybrids (R-loops). In mammalian B cells, transcription of the switch (S) regions generates DNA intermediates that form R-loops and secondary structures. The enzyme Activation Induced Deaminase (AID) is associated with the transcription machinery and is essential in both class switch recombination (CSR) and somatic hypermutation (SHM). AID triggers CSR by deaminating cytosines in the non-template DNA strand displaced by the R-loop. The resulting uracils are then processed by base excision repair (BER) or mismatch repair (MMR) pathways into DSBs. However, the reason why in B cells uracils lead to DSBs instead of being repaired remains unclear. It is thought that B cells may have specialized functions or DNA modifying enzymes not present in other eukaryotic cells to process uracils into DSBs. The same mechanism leading to CSR seems to be involved in the formation of chromosomal translocations (CTs) between the immunoglobulin S regions and c-MYC in B cell-derived Burkitt's lymphomas, also mediated by AID. CTs are a hallmark of cancer cells, and are mediated by DSBs. In the presence of sequence homology, CTs may also occur by homologous recombination. Transcription of S and c-MYC sequences in yeast generates AID-mediated DSBs that can be joined with an ectopic HO-induced DSB to yield a reciprocal CT. These CTs were strongly enhanced in yeast THO null mutants but not in hpr1-101 mutants, which do not form R-loops, consistent with the idea that AID-mediated DSBs depend on R-loop formation. CTs analyzed took place through NHEJ, confirming that the initial event was a DSB. This study provides new clues to understanding the role of mRNP biogenesis in preventing genome rearrangements and the mechanism of AID-mediated genome instability. It also shows that yeast cells have the factors and pathways required to channel AID-mediated DNA lesions into DSBs responsible for NHEJ-dependent genome rearrangements and CSR.
A cell needs to divide into two equal halves during cell division, and this requires precise coordination between the proteins that help the cell divide and the process of replicating and dividing the chromosome. This coordination is achieved in many bacteria by controlling when and where the proteins involved in cell division assemble relative to the chromosome. In E. coli, the assembly starts with the polymerization of FtsZ proteins into a ring-like structure that attaches to the inner surface of the cell membrane. The ring is positioned very accurately at the center of the cell, resulting in two equal halves after division. Several mechanisms have been discovered that help position this ring accurately, including the Min system, nucleoid occlusion, and the Ter linkage. These mechanisms work independently of each other and can be removed from the cell without affecting its ability to divide. In addition, there is a protein called FtsK that helps pump DNA from one side of the cell to the other during division. FtsK works very quickly, pumping up to 16 kilobases of DNA per second. This protein is important for ordering the segregation of the chromosome during division, especially when the division plane is not positioned accurately.
Vaccines are a crucial tool for preventing illness and disease, but they can be made even more effective by using only certain parts of an antigen (called an epitope) to trigger the immune response. Finding the right epitopes for a vaccine is a difficult process, but a new mathematical framework has been developed that can help to find the best combination of epitopes. This framework can be used to design vaccines for a variety of diseases, and it can help to personalize vaccines for specific individuals. This framework can also be used to improve existing vaccines by finding the best combination of epitopes. Overall, this new framework is a powerful tool for improving the effectiveness of vaccines.
The article focuses on the role of semen in HIV-1 male-to-female transmission. Semen is more than just a carrier of HIV-1, it contains biological factors that can either help or hinder the transmission of HIV-1. One such factor is IL-7, a cytokine found in seminal plasma. IL-7 is important for T cell development and is being studied as a treatment for severe lymphopenia. However, little is known about the effect of IL-7 on HIV-1 transmission. In this article, the authors investigated the effect of IL-7 on HIV-1 infection in human cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue ex vivo. They found that IL-7 can facilitate HIV-1 transmission and dissemination by preventing the apoptosis (programmed cell death) of CD4+ T cells and promoting their proliferation.
This paper investigates the role of antiviral responses in mosquitoes following infection with the Zika virus (ZIKV). The study shows that ZIKV induces the production of virus-specific small interfering RNAs (vsiRNAs) and piRNAs in mosquito cells. However, unlike previous studies, the paper finds that the antiviral role of the exogenous small interfering RNA (exo-siRNA) pathway in mosquitoes is not associated with enhanced virus replication. The paper also shows that the knockdown of PIWI proteins does not enhance virus replication. Additionally, the paper demonstrates that ZIKV capsid protein (C) can amplify replication of an alphavirus-based reporter system but does not display exo-siRNA pathway inhibition.
Sporotrichosis is a skin infection that can also affect other parts of the body, such as muscles, bones, lymphatic vessels, and cartilage. It is caused by a fungus that is found in soil and organic matter, and is distributed worldwide, with high rates of infection in Latin America. In the past, sporotrichosis was thought to be caused by one species of fungus, but recent research has identified four different species within the Sporothrix complex: S . globosa , S . brasiliensis , S . mexicana , and S . luriei . In Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, sporotrichosis is mostly transmitted from infected cats to humans. Recently, our research team mapped out cases of sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro and found a "transmission belt" along the border between the city and surrounding areas. The fungus causing sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro is very similar genetically, which suggests that it may be living in the same niche. However, no one has yet looked at whether the genetic species of the fungus causing sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro is related to the symptoms of the disease. So, the main goal of this study was to investigate if the different genetic species of S . schenckii sensu lato are associated with different symptoms of sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro.
Scientists have been studying the human and mouse genomes and found that a large portion of it is being transcribed, but not into protein coding genes. This is called "transcriptional dark matter" and it can include non-coding RNAs, extensions of known genes, and new protein coding genes. To study this dark matter, scientists have used microarray and sequencing technologies. However, the methods used to study this dark matter have limitations and sometimes give false results. To get a more accurate picture of this dark matter, scientists have analyzed the data from multiple studies using a new technology called RNA-Seq. They found that the proportion of transcripts from the dark matter is much lower than previously thought, and that most of the dark matter transcripts are associated with known genes or may be new exons.
Proteins are important in many areas of science, including biotechnology and medicine. However, many proteins degrade when stored or used, which limits their applications. To increase the stability of proteins, scientists have used three main methods: directed evolution, sequence consensus, and rational design. These methods have different strengths and weaknesses, and they have been used to improve protein thermostability. However, it is hard to predict how well each method will work for a specific protein, and the stability increase is likely due to a combination of effects. There are many computational methods that can help predict how a protein mutation will affect stability. A recent study used a combination of quick screening methods and a more accurate free energy method to study point mutations on the thermostability of a barnase protein. The free energy method used a well-defined protein structure to model the mutational effect on the folded state and a small peptide to model the effect on the unfolded state. This method provided a rigorous way to calculate the free energy change caused by a point mutation, though it is more expensive than the quick screening methods. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) from a jellyfish is widely used in biology and medicine, but it requires oxygen as a cofactor, which limits its use in oxygen-limited systems. New bacterial blue-light photoreceptors have been discovered that can fluoresce in the presence or absence of oxygen, providing new opportunities to study oxygen-limited systems. In this work, scientists used the quick screening method FoldX and the more accurate free energy method to search for more thermostable mutants of a blue-light photoreceptor called FbFP. Eighteen single mutants were selected for experimental testing, and thirteen of them showed higher melting temperatures. The scientists then combined different single mutations to yield even higher values.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania parasites and transmitted by bites from infected sand flies. The genus Lutzomyia, which includes New World sand flies, is the exclusive vector of leishmaniasis in humans. Leishmaniasis is a major global health problem, affecting millions of people worldwide. Infections are caused by different species of Leishmania, which have a species-specific pathology and can cause cutaneous or visceral disease. There are about 12 species of Leishmania that infect humans in the New World, but only 6 are known to do so in the Old World. Traditional treatment options are becoming less effective and species-specific responses to alternative treatments are raising the importance of accurate species diagnosis. Some sand fly species are infected with the bacterium Wolbachia, which can manipulate host reproduction in different ways. Identifying Lutzomyia sand fly species and species groups will be important in understanding the spread of leishmaniasis and in targeting pest control measures to mitigate disease transmission.
Scientists are trying to understand why the herpes simplex virus reactivates in people with weakened immune systems and causes serious problems. The virus causes cold sores and chickenpox, and it can lie dormant in the body for a long time. Some people carry the virus without ever knowing it, but when their immune systems are weakened, the virus can reactivate and cause problems. Scientists have found that the virus reactivates when the cells it is dormant in are stimulated or differentiate. They are trying to understand why this happens and what makes the virus reactivate. They think that changes in certain proteins in the cells and in the virus itself might be involved. They also think that certain molecules in the body might help trigger the reactivation. Scientists are trying to find out more about this process so that they can develop new ways to prevent or treat problems caused by the virus reactivating.
Researchers are studying how a protein called NOL11 helps to develop the face and skull of an unborn baby. NOL11 is found in the nucleoli, where ribosomes are made. Ribosomes are small organelles inside cells that are responsible for making proteins. Ribosome biogenesis is the process by which ribosomes are made. Defects in this process can cause a group of diseases called ribosomopathies. These diseases can cause a variety of symptoms, including craniofacial malformations. Craniofacial malformations are a group of birth defects that affect the face and skull. In this research, the scientists found that NOL11 is required for the proper development of the cranial neural crest, a group of cells that form the face and skull. They also found that NOL11 is involved in ribosome biogenesis. Without NOL11, the cells in the cranial neural crest are unable to make ribosomes properly. This causes the cells to become stressed and activates the p53 protein. The p53 protein causes the cells to stop dividing and die. Without these cells, the baby's face and skull do not develop properly. The scientists also found that the p53 protein can be depleted to partially rescue the craniofacial defects. This suggests that the defects are caused by the cellular response to the failure of ribosome biogenesis. This research provides new insight into the relationship between ribosome biogenesis and craniofacial development.
Leptospirosis is a common infectious disease worldwide, and it is caused by bacteria found in the urine of animals such as rodents. Humans can get infected when they come into contact with contaminated soil or water. The MAT (microagglutination test) is a common method used to diagnose leptospirosis, but it requires a sample taken from the patient during the early stages of the disease. To overcome this limitation, scientists have developed different tests to diagnose leptospirosis, such as ELISA and high-density protein microarrays. In this study, scientists used high-density protein microarrays to identify specific proteins that could be used to diagnose leptospirosis. They analyzed 250 samples from patients in Brazil and found that one protein was particularly useful for diagnosing leptospirosis. This protein may be used in future diagnostic tests and vaccines to prevent the spread of leptospirosis.
The article "Melanization in Arthropods: An Immediate Immune Response" is about a defense mechanism in arthropods, such as insects and crustaceans, against invading microorganisms. Melanization is a process that involves the physical encapsulation of pathogens in a dense melanin coat, which can harm certain pathogens. It is also a prominent wound healing process in arthropods, manifested by the blackening of the wound area. The process of melanization is regulated by pattern recognition receptors that trigger a proteolytic cascade that converts a prophenoloxidase (PPO) zymogen into an active phenoloxidase (PO), the rate limiting enzyme in melanogenesis. The cascade involves a modular protease and several clip-domain serine proteases, which are under tight temporal regulation by serine protease inhibitors. The article discusses the central role of serine protease homologs (SPHs) in the melanization response, which are non-catalytic and functionally replaceable with clip-domain serine proteases. The article also discusses the role of melanization in insect defense against pathogens, such as bacteria, fungi, and parasites. It highlights the importance of melanization in insect immunity, particularly against entomopathogenic fungi that infect by direct penetration through the mosquito cuticle into the hemolymph. The article provides novel insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms triggering fungal melanization in vivo, emphasizing its critical role in insect defense against microbial pathogens.
The article aims to investigate the potential of targeting mosquito proteins used by dengue virus (DENV) for viral replication and transmission instead of directly targeting the mosquito or DENV for destruction. This could lead to novel methods to reduce DENV transmission. The article introduces several DENV host factors (HFs) that are essential for arbovirus replication and transmission. These HFs can be considered as potential targets for chemical- and vaccine-based transmission-blocking strategies. The article also highlights several chemical compounds that have shown to suppress DENV infection to various degrees in mammalian or insect cells. The article discusses four putative DENV HF-inhibitor compounds and investigates their ability to block DENV infection of the mosquito midgut. The compounds were administered to mosquitoes by various treatment methods including injection and ingestion by sugar feeding or blood feeding.
Cells can change their size due to a variety of reasons such as trauma, ischemia, hypoxia, seizures, spreading depression, and anoxic depolarization during ischemia. These changes in size can have a significant impact on the electrical signals inside the cell. The study examines how changes in size affect the electrical activity in a single neuron. It also looks at how the dynamic microenvironment within the extracellular space plays a crucial role in neuronal behavior. The study finds that a unified framework that combines ion concentration dynamics during spiking with the sizes of intra- and extracellular spaces can explain the differences in neuronal behavior in different conditions such as spreading depression, seizures, and anoxic depolarization during ischemia. This can help in developing new strategies for controlling these conditions.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a fungus that causes paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM), a disease that affects the lungs and other organs. PCM is endemic to South America, especially Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, and Colombia. It is a serious illness that can be fatal. The first defense against PCM in humans are immune cells, including macrophages and dendritic cells. These cells recognize the fungus as a foreign invader and release inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β. However, the production of IL-1β is not well understood in PCM. In this study, we found that IL-1β production induced by the yeast cells of P. brasiliensis is dependent on NLRP3 and caspase-1 activity in dendritic cells. We also found that potassium (K+) efflux, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, lysosomal acidification, and cathepsin B release are required for the activation step of the inflammasome. Finally, we demonstrated the importance of IL-1β signaling in controlling P. brasiliensis intracellular growth in macrophage cells.
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that can cause a chronic infection of the central nervous system (CNS) in humans and mice. It is estimated that one-third of the world's population is infected with Toxoplasma and it can be fatal in some cases, such as in AIDS patients or people with a weakened immune system. The parasite is capable of infecting and encysting in both astrocytes and neurons, two major cell types in the CNS. However, in vivo, Toxoplasma almost exclusively persists in neurons. In order to better understand why this occurs, researchers have used genetically modified mice and parasites to track the host cells that interact with the parasites. They found that neurons consistently make up the majority of the host cells that interact with the parasites, even when the parasites were genetically modified to target astrocytes. This finding suggests that Toxoplasma has a strong predilection for interacting with neurons in vivo and that the extensive size and breadth of neuronal processes may play a role in this preference. This knowledge could help in the development of new therapies to treat Toxoplasma infections and toxoplasmic encephalitis, a fatal brain infection caused by Toxoplasma.
A "lay summary" is a simplified, understandable summary of scientific research for a non-scientific audience. It usually includes the key points of the research, but in simpler language and with more background information. It is often aimed at researchers, medical professionals, journalists, and the general public.
A recent study used two methods to create high-quality protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks for Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a yeast organism. These networks are important for understanding how proteins interact with each other and how they form complexes. However, there are many false positives and false negatives in these networks, so reducing the amount of noise in these networks is crucial. A new method for evaluating PPI networks is presented in this paper. This method uses a network model that assumes that PPI networks are geometric, meaning that the proteins in the network form interactions based on their biochemical properties. The model successfully de-noises the network, removing false positives and false negatives. This method is compared to other methods for post-processing PPI networks in the final section. The authors show that the random geometric graph model can be used for assessing the confidence levels of known interactions in PPI networks and predicting novel ones. The paper provides an important tool for evaluating and improving the quality of PPI networks, which are crucial for understanding complex biological systems.
Scientists have found that certain diseases are caused by repeating sequences of three nucleotides in specific regions of RNA. These diseases include myotonic dystrophy type 1, fragile X-associate tremor and ataxia syndrome, spinocerebellar ataxia type 8, and Huntington's disease-like 2. These diseases are caused by repeating sequences of CTG, CUG, and CAG, respectively. These repeating sequences form clusters that can interfere with how the body makes a protein that is important for the body to work properly. Scientists have also found that these diseases can also be caused by anti-sense transcripts, which are copies of the DNA sequence that are read in the opposite direction. These anti-sense transcripts can make other types of RNA that can interfere with the body's ability to make the right protein. Scientists used fruit flies to study how this works and found that the sense and anti-sense transcripts can work together to cause problems in the body. They also found that this happens because the sense and anti-sense transcripts can create small pieces of RNA that can target other types of RNA in the body. This can make things worse for the body.
The article "Revised phylogeny, virulence determinants, and genomic islands of Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193" describes the soft rot bacteria Pectobacterium wasabiae and its ability to cause damage to plants. The authors compare Pectobacterium wasabiae to other Pectobacterium species, such as Pectobacterium atrosepticum, and identify unique features that set Pectobacterium wasabiae apart. The authors also identify potential virulence determinants that may be important during the early stages of infection, when bacteria are not yet causing visible damage to the plant. Finally, the authors discuss the potential impact of Pectobacterium wasabiae on global potato crop production and suggest that more research is needed to better understand this bacterium and its effects on plants.
Mitochondria are essential organelles in eukaryotic cells that perform various functions such as energy production, apoptosis, and metabolism. Most mitochondrial proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and transported into the mitochondria post-translationally. To understand mitochondrial biogenesis and pathology, it is crucial to identify the inventory of mitochondrial proteins. However, the inventory of mitochondrial proteins is dynamically changed depending on the cellular state, tissue type, and species. In this study, we used a data-integrative computational biology approach and quantitative proteomic analysis to evaluate the reliability of mitochondrial proteomics data and cluster the identified proteins into the modules of mitochondrial protein functional network. Our results revealed that mitochondrial proteins are grouped into specific network modules that control unique biological processes in cells with dysfunctional mitochondria. We believe that our findings can provide critical information to gain a better understanding of mitochondrial function and its role in the cell.
Life is made up of complex machines that convert molecules into products. These machines go through several steps. First, molecules bind to the machines. Then, chemical reactions take place at the active sites of the machines. Finally, the machines move parts of themselves to complete the process. Each of these steps can be studied in vitro, but it is difficult to determine the in-vivo rates from these in-vitro measurements. To solve this problem, researchers have developed a method to measure the kinetics of these machines in vitro and in vivo in a way that is similar. This method can help researchers understand the in-vivo rates of these machines more accurately. The researchers applied this method to the elongation cycle of protein synthesis, a key process in gene expression. During this process, ribosomes translate the codon sequences of mRNA into peptide chains of proteins. The ribosomes go through several states with rapid transitions between them. The researchers measured these transition rates in vitro at 20°C and 37°C using the ribosomes and translation factors from Escherichia coli. They then minimized the kinetic distance between the in-vitro and in-vivo processes, taking into account two known properties of the in-vivo process: the overall elongation rates and the tRNA concentrations. Finally, they validated the in-vivo rates by comparing them to independent in-vivo data.
The article discusses the estimated ages of pathogenic bacteria and viruses. Current wisdom suggests that pathogenic bacteria have existed for 10,000-50,000 years, but the ages of more genetically diverse bacteria have been estimated as reflecting millions of years of evolution. The authors argue that the use of a universal molecular clock rate for bacterial evolution is problematic because it is based on a supposedly universal clock rate for synonymous polymorphisms in genes that encode proteins. The authors also criticize the use of long-term clock rates for age estimates within a species, arguing that diversity between species represents fixation events whereas diversity within a species reflects the accumulation of polymorphisms. The authors use the example of Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that commonly infects humans and can persist over a person's lifetime in the absence of antibiotic therapy. The authors re-analyze the sequence diversity of 78 gene fragments from serial H. pylori isolates from 31 individuals in Louisiana and Colombia, and estimate the mutation and recombination rates over short time periods. The mutation rate is estimated to be 6.9×10−5 per nucleotide per year, and the recombination rate is estimated to be 6.5×10−5 per nucleotide per year. These rates are much higher than previously estimated rates, and the authors argue that they reflect a combination of a high mutation rate and frequent recombination. The authors also provide evidence for the existence of mosaic imports in H. pylori genomes, which have been introduced by homologous recombination. Overall, the article highlights the importance of using short-term clock rates for age estimates in bacteria, and provides robust estimates of mutation and recombination rates in H. pylori.
Scientists have discovered a new type of photoreceptor in the human eye that is able to respond to light even without rods or cones. These new photoreceptors, called melanopsin retinal ganglion cells (mRGCs), are thought to play a role in the brain's response to light, such as circadian entrainment and the pupil light reflex. However, it is not clear if mRGCs can also contribute to the function of conventional visual pathways. To study this further, scientists are using a reporter line to trace the projection pattern of the full mRGC population and determine if they make a direct contribution to conventional vision.
HIV-1 infection can cause significant damage to the intestinal mucosa and alter the body's immune system. This damage can lead to increased microbial translocation to the systemic compartment, resulting in chronic inflammation in HIV-1-infected individuals. During the acute stage of HIV-1 infection, the near-complete elimination of CD4+ T cells in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) results in a lack of important regulatory and effector functions of these cells, which may have a profound effect on the host's ability to react to changing antigenic variety at mucosal barriers. The study aimed to investigate how antibody levels specific to microbial and food antigens encountered at mucosal surfaces are altered in HIV-1-infected individuals with varying CD4+ T cell counts. The results of the study suggest that HIV-1-infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts exhibit reduced levels of plasma IgG specific to antigens derived from Proteobacteria and Firmicutes. Additionally, the study demonstrates that HIV-1-infected individuals exhibit an increase in IgM levels and a decrease of IgG/IgM and IgA/IgM ratios of antibodies specific to mucosal microbial antigens, indicative of a lack of help for class switch recombination. These alterations in the humoral response to environmental antigens may contribute to the chronic inflammation observed in HIV-1-infected individuals.
The study introduces a new way of looking at populations that are limited by their environment. This happens to many populations in real life, such as plants growing in the same space or businesses competing for customers. In these situations, a population may experience sudden collapses that are random and unpredictable. The study suggests that the dynamics of these populations can be described using a mathematical model that takes into account their limited resources. This model can be applied to many real-life situations, such as bacterial populations that are decimated by viruses or entire taxonomic orders of animals that suddenly disappear from the fossil record.
The study examines the way in which bacteria called E. coli swim and respond to chemical gradients. E. coli has a unique way of swimming that involves a series of long straight swims called "runs" and sudden turns called "tumbles." These tumbles are controlled by a group of proteins called the chemotaxis system, which helps the bacteria sense and swim towards chemical gradients. The study finds that the direction of the bacterial movement affects the size of the tumbles, and this helps the bacteria swim more efficiently towards the chemical gradient. The study suggests that this is a new way that bacteria navigate their environment, and it may help them find food and avoid danger.
The thymus is a specialized organ that helps our bodies fight infections by making immune cells called T cells. The thymus has a unique microenvironment that is important for developing T cells. There are two types of thymic cells, called thymic epithelial cells (TECs) and T cells. TECs provide signals to T cells that help them grow and develop. There are two types of TECs, cortical and medullary. Cortical TECs help T cells become ready to leave the thymus and enter the body. Medullary TECs help T cells become more specific and selective. These cells are important because they help our bodies avoid attacking healthy cells and tissues. Scientists have found that signals from T cells help medullary TECs develop and expand. They also found that a protein called Stat3 is needed for optimal medullary TEC development and homeostasis. These findings help scientists understand more about how the immune system works and how to make it better.
The article "Regulatory RNAs in Clostridium difficile" by Konstantinov et al. discusses the importance of regulatory RNAs in bacteria and their role in various metabolic, physiological, and pathogenic processes. The article focuses on small noncoding RNAs (sRNAs), which control their targets using different mechanisms. The authors hypothesize that sRNAs may play a role in C. difficile infection cycle. To identify sRNAs in C. difficile, the researchers used a combination of in silico and experimental approaches, which led to the identification of numerous sRNA candidates. They found that some sRNAs are expressed in a growth-stage specific manner, suggesting their involvement in growth-stage specific control in C. difficile. This study provides a basis for the future detailed functional characterization of RNA-based regulatory mechanisms in C. difficile.
The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a positive-sense single stranded RNA virus that causes chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis, often leading to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. The HCV genome is composed of a long open reading frame (ORF) that is flanked by untranslated regions (UTRs) at both the 5′ and 3′ ends. The ORF encodes a polyprotein of approximately 3010 amino acids that is processed by cellular and viral proteases into 10 polypeptides. One of these polypeptides is the core protein. The HCV core protein inhibits GLD-2’s terminal mononucleotidyl transferase activity, resulting in the downregulation of miR-122 isomers bearing non-templated 3′-end single-nucleotide additions and thereby the dysregulation of miR-122 function. Our results demonstrate a novel role of the HCV core protein in regulating viral replication and translation through GLD-2-mediated miR-122 stability control.
Trypanosomes, which are transmitted by tsetse flies, cause serious health and economic problems in many parts of Africa. Infections in humans cause over 50,000 deaths every year, while animal trypanosomiasis is a major livestock disease across the continent. It has been very difficult to find vaccines to protect humans and animals from trypanosome infections. This is because trypanosomes have a unique way of evading the host immune response by changing their outer protein coat (variant surface glycoprotein, or VSG). When host antibodies recognize a particular VSG, trypanosomes expressing that VSG are killed. This process involves a random switch in the VSG gene expressed from a pool of about a thousand genes, and the subset of trypanosomes that survive the switch is able to evade the immune response. Until now, there has been no evidence of natural immunity to trypanosome infections, which has been a major obstacle to vaccine development. However, a recent study has found that some wildlife and cattle show evidence of clinical tolerance to trypanosomes.
Coagulation, a process that involves a group of proteins (factors) and a type of blood cell (platelets), normally inactive in the body, is an important process that affects human health. Inadequate coagulation can lead to disorders such as haemophilia, while too much clotting can be a serious complication of surgery and is involved in coronary artery diseases, which are responsible for a third of all deaths in North America. The coagulation cascade is complex, with two main pathways that lead to the activation of thrombin and clot formation, which is the subject of our in silico drug discovery model.
The problem of antibiotic resistance has become more and more serious in recent years, and diseases that had previously been well-controlled are again becoming threats to animal and public health. Phage therapy is a possible solution to this problem, but its development and adoption have been slow due to several reasons. One reason is that the paradigms associated with antibiotic therapies cannot be directly transferred to phage therapies. For instance, certain threshold phenomena, not normally encountered in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) of antibiotic therapies, are important in practical phage therapy. To understand these non-linear kinetic properties of phages as "self-replicating pharmaceuticals", we tested a PK/PD model of phage-bacteria interactions against in vitro experimental data for a low passage strain of Campylobacter jejuni and a virulent phage active against this strain. The C. jejuni-phage system is well-suited for testing how PK/PD models fare against in vitro data because it is a human pathogen that ranks amongst the major causes of infective gastroenteritis, is a zoonotic disease most commonly contracted following the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs, and is relevant to agricultural and veterinary applications. In this paper, we demonstrate the existence of threshold phenomena in experimental data from an in vitro C. jejuni-phage system, and illustrate how an understanding of these thresholds will be important in developing practical in vivo phage therapies. We focus on estimating the key biological parameters which control the threshold levels, and ask whether these parameters might vary between cultures according to dosage of phage treatments or otherwise between different experimental contexts. We also focus on the role of resistant bacteria, although resistance to phages has rarely been addressed in detail in phage therapy studies despite being a major issue for practical phage therapeutics. Although the characteristics of in vitro phage-bacteria interactions are likely to differ from those observed in vivo, we view the testing of models of in vitro phage therapy to be a necessary first step in understanding how PK/PD theory of phage therapy can be applied in clinical and other in vivo settings.
The article describes the discovery and characterization of a new type of pattern-recognition receptor called toll-like receptor (TLR) in a snail called Biomphalaria glabrata. This snail acts as an intermediate host for the parasite Schistosoma mansoni, which causes intestinal schistosomiasis. The TLR of B. glabrata is found to play a role in the immune response of the snail against S. mansoni, making it unique among known TLRs. The discovery of this new TLR could help in better understanding the immune response of molluscs to parasites and developing new strategies for controlling schistosomiasis.
French Polynesia, a group of islands in the South Pacific, experiences severe health problems due to mosquito bites. These mosquitoes can transmit infectious pathogens, such as dengue, chikungunya, Zika, and the filaria Wuchereria bancrofti. Aedes aegypti and Aedes polynesiensis are the main mosquito species found in French Polynesia, with Ae. aegypti being more common in urban areas and Ae. polynesiensis being more commonly found in the valleys and remote areas. Both mosquitoes are daytime feeders, with peak biting times in the early morning and late afternoon. The climate in French Polynesia is warm and wet from October to May, with a relatively cool and dry season from November to April. Mosquito population densities are higher during the wet season, particularly for Ae. polynesiensis, which is more dependent on natural breeding sites. Vector control strategies, such as mass drug administration and the release of incompatible Aedes males carrying the endosymbiotic bacterium Wolbachia, are being implemented in French Polynesia to prevent disease transmission. Human antibody responses to mosquito salivary proteins have been found to be useful as biomarkers of exposure to Aedes bites in other studies. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the potential of human antibody responses to Ae. aegypti and Ae. polynesiensis saliva as biomarkers of exposure to mosquito bites in French Polynesia. An additional group of military personnel who had not been exposed to the bites of these two mosquito species prior to their arrival in Tahiti was tested twice, once upon arrival and after a year of residence, to follow the antibody responses. Complementary cohorts from various Aedes exposure contexts served as controls to help differentiate cross-reactions.
In this study, researchers examined how Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) affects the metabolism of macrophages, the immune cells that Mtb infects. The researchers infected macrophages with different strains of Mtb and found that the bacteria regulate the metabolism of the host cell. This regulation is important for the survival of both the bacteria and the host cell. The researchers also discovered that Mtb requires engaging with a unique subset of host metabolic pathways to express its virulence, which is the ability to cause disease. They then identified the specific host metabolic pathways that are involved in this process, and how Mtb pathogenicity is linked to these pathways. The researchers concluded that host- and pathogen-derived factors converge to dictate the pathology of Mtb infection. This means that the disease caused by Mtb is influenced by both the bacteria and the host.
The paper is about the role of ZIP3, a protein required for the proper segregation of genetic material during meiosis. Meiosis is a special kind of cell division that produces haploid cells (with half the number of genetic material) that will eventually form gametes (sperm and egg cells). During meiosis, homologous chromosomes pair up and exchange genetic material (recombine), which is important for the proper segregation of genetic material. ZIP3 helps to initiate the process of recombination, and is also important for the proper pairing of homologous chromosomes and their subsequent segregation. A mutation in ZIP3 results in chromosome segregation defects and leads to infertility.
The mosquito Aedes ( Stegomyia ) albopictus ( Skuse ) has been able to spread worldwide due to its ability to survive in cold temperatures, reproduce in containers, and adapt to urban environments. It can transmit several diseases to humans and animals, including chikungunya, dengue, Zika, and West Nile viruses. To help understand its distribution and abundance, some scientists have used climate and environmental variables to create maps of where the mosquito might be found. However, these maps do not always take into account how the mosquito interacts with humans and other animals in specific areas. This study aims to investigate how climate and environmental variables affect the abundance and dynamics of Ae . albopictus in metropolitan versus sub-urban/rural sites in Rome, Italy. The study found that temperature and rainfall had positive and negative associations with mosquito abundance, respectively, while vegetation was positively associated with the number of eggs laid.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is a type of bacteria that causes tuberculosis (TB). The bacteria have a cell envelope that is full of lipids, making up about 40% of its dry weight. One type of lipid found in the envelope is phthiocerol dimycocerosates (DIM), which are made by a group of proteins called fatty acid synthases and polyketide synthases. These molecules are found near the surface of the bacteria and are thought to be part of the mycobacterial pseudo-outer membrane. They have been shown to be important for the pathogenicity of Mtb. A DIM-less strain of Mtb grew slower and produced fewer lung surface tubercles than a DIM-producing strain. A DIM-coated strain of Mtb persisted longer than an uncoated strain in the spleen and lung of infected mice. Recent studies have shown that DIM can modify the early immune responses of murine macrophages. They can protect Mtb from nitric oxide-dependent killing in macrophages and modulate the production of important inflammatory cytokines. However, it is unclear how DIM do this. It is also unclear how DIM affect the initial step of entry into macrophages. We have shown that DIM are involved in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis of Mtb. This modification might help Mtb create a protective niche, preventing phagosome acidification.
The brain is a complex system made up of different scales of organization. These different scales interact with each other to create the brain's computational power. At the macroscopic level, the brain can be divided into large circuits made up of millions of neurons. At the microscopic level, individual neurons perform basic computations. In between these two scales are microcircuits made up of a few thousand neurons each. These microcircuits are important for linking the activity of single neurons to behavior. It is important to understand how these microcircuits work because they are thought to be involved in a wide range of functions, including motor control and cognition. One way to study microcircuits is by using neural mass models. These models describe groups of neurons within a microcircuit as a homogeneous population of neurons. The Jansen-Rit model is an example of a neural mass model. It describes a local cortical circuit as a population of excitatory pyramidal cells that receive feedback from local interneurons and excitatory input from other regions. This model can be studied using mean-field theory, which approximates the behavior of large networks. Mean-field theory is useful for studying the mass activity of a few thousand neurons, which is the upper limit of mesoscopic descriptions of neural circuits. However, this approximation becomes exact in the limit of networks with an infinite number of neurons, also known as the thermodynamic limit. For finite-size networks, mean-field theory provides only an approximation of the real behavior of the system, and therefore may neglect important phenomena, such as differences in the transitions between static regimes and chaos, or in the degree or nature of correlations among neurons. To go beyond the mean-field limit, several mathematical techniques have been developed to quantify finite-size effects. These methods can only be applied to mesoscopic circuits composed of a finite but large number of neurons. On the other side, most of the literature about small neural circuits deals with networks composed of 2–4 neurons, while methods for the analysis of networks made of a few tens of neurons are still limited. In our article, we make progress in the mathematical methodology to study the dynamics of such networks. We extend the analysis of the bifurcations of networks of arbitrary size with highly symmetric assumptions on the strength of the synaptic weights to a more biologically plausible network of arbitrary size with less rigid constraints on the synaptic weights. We consider a deterministic finite-size firing-rate network model with excitatory and inhibitory populations composed of an arbitrary number of homogeneous neurons in each population. Moreover, the model is characterized by homogeneous and arbitrarily strong weights between the populations. Then, we perform a numerical analysis of the global bifurcations that emerge by varying the external input currents (i.e., the stimuli) to the network and the strength of inhibition. We also introduce a mathematical theory that describes local bifurcations analytically. We find qualitative differences with the mean-field approximation when the system has strong inhibitory synaptic weights. In this case, through a phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry-breaking, the neural network undergoes a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point, from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge. On the new branches, new bifurcations can occur, enriching considerably the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network. This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation. In summary, we study the dynamics of a network of an arbitrary number of excitatory and inhibitory neurons, with homogeneous and arbitrarily strong weights between them. Through numerical simulations and analytical calculations, we find that the dynamics of such a network is fundamentally different from the mean-field approximation when the system has strong inhibitory synaptic weights. In this case, the network undergoes a spontaneous symmetry-breaking, leading to a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point, and multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge. These solutions correspond to different patterns of neural activity and can be observed experimentally. Our study provides a mathematical framework for understanding the dynamics of small neural circuits, which are important for understanding the information processing capability of the brain.
Scientists are looking for a way to detect Leishmania parasites in a person's blood and healthy tissues after the lesions have healed. They want to find out if the parasites are alive or not. They are using a tool called RNA to detect the parasites. They chose a part of the parasite's RNA called 7SLRNA, because it is plentiful, stable, and can be found outside of the parasite's main body. They found that the amount of 7SLRNA in a person's blood, skin, and tonsil tissues is related to the number of live parasites. They also found that Leishmania 7SLRNA genes and transcripts are present in the blood, skin, and tonsil tissues of people with dermal leishmaniasis. This means that they can use the 7SLRNA tool to find out if Leishmania parasites are alive in these tissues.
In this paper, the authors studied how DNA replication is controlled in eukaryotic cells. They looked at how replication timing happens at different points along the genome and how it is influenced by specific proteins and modifications of DNA. They also looked at how these proteins and modifications change over time, and how they relate to replication timing. They used a technique called Lasso to analyze the data and found that certain proteins and modifications are more strongly related to replication timing than others. They also found that these proteins and modifications work together in a specific way to influence replication timing. They then used this information to create a simpler, easier to understand model of how replication timing works.
Dengue fever is a common and widespread disease caused by the flavivirus Dengue virus (DENV). It is estimated that 392 million people are infected with DENV each year, primarily in tropical and subtropical areas around the world. Several factors, such as unplanned urbanization, air travel networks, and increased numbers of susceptible people, have contributed to the rise in cases and spread of DENV serotypes. Brazil has all four serotypes of DENV, and DENV serotypes 1, 2, and 3 have been circulating for at least two decades. Recent studies have helped to understand the evolution and movement of DENV in Brazil and other countries, but the origins and movement of DENV serotypes 1, 2, and 3 remain unclear. In this study, researchers use a combination of molecular clock, coalescent, and discrete phylogeographic models to analyze full genome sequences and deduce the past movements of DENV serotypes 1 through 3 on a global scale. The study also uses a 2D random-walk model to estimate the rate of DENV lineage dispersal within Brazil, and a recently developed discrete diffusion approach to estimate the impact of epidemiological and ecological determinants of DENV dispersal.
The nervous system is responsible for processing sensory information and converting it into appropriate behaviors. However, how this process is achieved and what the neural code is remains poorly understood. Perception and behavior are determined by the activity of large populations of neurons, but this activity is often correlated and not independent. In this study, we used weakly electric fish to understand how the structure of receptive fields affects neural correlations. We found that the three parallel maps in the lateral line lobe of the fish brain have different receptive field structures in terms of size and overlap. Despite these differences, we found that the correlations between pyramidal cells in the three maps are not significantly different on average. We used a mathematical model to explain this surprising result. Our model found that different combinations of receptive field center and surround can give rise to similar correlations. We predict that the similar levels of correlations observed in the three maps arise because the cells receive similar relative levels of positively and negatively correlated inputs, despite different receptive field structures.
This article is about how noise correlations between neurons affect their ability to process and encode information. Noise correlations refer to the tendency for the activity of a pair of neurons to be correlated across different presentations of the same stimulus. The article reviews prior studies on this topic, which have shown that noise correlations can either improve, reduce, or have no effect on information encoding. However, most of these studies have made specific assumptions about the structure of the tuning curves and noise correlations, which may not apply to all types of neurons. To address this limitation, the authors developed a new mathematical model to study how information encoding varies with different types of noise correlations. They proved that, compared to independent noise, information encoding is always enhanced when the noise and signal correlations have opposite signs for all pairs of neurons. The authors also proved that there are conditions under which noise correlations can yield information encoding that is as good as deterministic neural responses. They conclude that understanding how noise correlations affect information encoding is crucial for understanding how neural networks process information.
S. aureus is responsible for many infections, including osteomyelitis, endocarditis, cystic fibrosis infections, and burn and pressure ulcer infections. These infections are often difficult to treat, despite being fully sensitive to antibiotics in the lab, because of factors in the body that reduce their susceptibility to antibiotic killing. These factors can include interactions with other microbes in the body, such as fungi or other bacteria, that make S. aureus less sensitive to antibiotics. One example of this is when S. aureus and P. aeruginosa are both present in the body at the same time. These two organisms interact in ways that can make S. aureus more virulent and difficult to treat. This study looks at how different molecules produced by P. aeruginosa interact with S. aureus, and how these interactions affect S. aureus's sensitivity to antibiotics. They found that some molecules make S. aureus more sensitive to antibiotics, while others make it less sensitive. They also found that different strains of P. aeruginosa produce different molecules that affect S. aureus's sensitivity to antibiotics. Overall, this study shows that the environment in which S. aureus infections occur can affect how well antibiotics work to treat those infections.
Dengue is a common infection caused by dengue virus. It is estimated that there are 390 million cases of dengue every year, with 96 million being symptomatic cases. Some of these symptomatic cases can develop severe complications, including bleeding and plasma leakage. One of the early and consistent features of dengue virus infection is thrombocytopenia. This means that the number of platelets in the blood is reduced. Platelets play an important role in blood clotting, and when they are reduced in number, it can lead to serious complications. Platelets also have other important functions, including regulation of inflammation and host defense, and preservation of endothelial integrity. However, when platelets are activated, they can become exhausted and not function properly. This can be due to increased platelet clearance by the binding of von Willebrand factor (VWF) to platelets, and loss of sialic acids from the platelet membrane. VWF is a protein that is present in plasma, platelets, and endothelial cells. It is important for platelet adhesion and aggregation at sites of vessel injury. Platelets also have glycoproteins that are decorated with N-glycans and O-linked glycans, which are covered by sialic acids. Loss of terminal sialic acids exposes these glycoproteins to recognition by macrophages or the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor. In our study, we found that dengue is associated with increased binding of VWF to platelets, and that VWF binding leads to NEU-1 mediated desialylation. This desialylation is associated with thrombocytopenia. We also found that VWF binding to platelets can be inhibited by the sialidase inhibitor oseltamivir.
A "bidirectional gene pair" refers to two genes that are arranged so that their 5' ends are on opposite strands of DNA and are within 1,000 base pairs of each other. These genes are known as "bidirectional promoters" because they influence the expression of both adjacent genes. This regulatory arrangement is found repeatedly in the human genome, with 1,352 known examples. While the biological significance of this arrangement is not yet clear, it is conserved among species, suggesting that it is functionally important. In addition, a pattern of specific nucleotides in these promoters could play a role in binding regulatory proteins. Some of these proteins, such as SP1, have been suggested as key regulators of CpG island promoters. If groups of bidirectional promoters are similarly regulated, then distantly located genes under the control of these promoters should show common expression patterns. However, within a pair, genes can be expressed in a mutually exclusive manner. How the intervening promoter sequence preferentially activates one gene versus another is currently unknown. The categories of genes regulated by these promoters imply that specialized transcription factor binding sites could regulate expression of these genes. Bidirectional promoters regulate DNA repair genes and other genes that frequently play a role in cancer that is elicited through mutations in their coding sequences. However, another plausible scenario toward the development of cancer comes from the misregulation of bidirectional promoters, especially if they contain common transcription factor binding sites. These sites would be candidates to explain a general mechanism in which regulatory disruptions at bidirectional promoters could play a pivotal role in cancer. To comprehensively map bidirectional promoters in the human genome, we developed a new algorithm using spliced expressed sequence tags ( ESTs ). The extended set of bidirectional promoters elucidates relationships among genes regulated by bidirectional promoters through co-expression networks. We show evidence that a subset of these promoters, which regulate genes implicated in breast and ovarian cancers, contain transcription factor binding sites in common.
The article "Transitions in Sex Chromosomes and Sex Determination in Diptera: A Phylogenetic Analysis" by D. Schmidt et al. focuses on the diversity of sex determination mechanisms in flies, particularly in the Diptera genus. They explore the genetic and chromosomal factors that determine sex in various fly species and how these mechanisms have evolved over time. The article highlights that while the vast majority of flies have a sex chromosome system where the X chromosome determines sex, there are some species where this is not the case. The authors also present evidence that the karyotype of Drosophila is derived and that the small dot chromosome (element F) may have once been an X chromosome in some outgroup Brachycera species. The article concludes that more research is needed to fully understand the mechanisms of sex determination and the evolution of sex chromosomes in flies.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is a mosquito-borne pathogen that causes microcephaly in babies and Guillain-Barré syndrome in adults. It was first identified in 1947 in Uganda, but only caused sporadic cases of infection until 2007. In 2015, the virus spread rapidly throughout South and Central America and the Caribbean. It has since been linked to an increase in babies born with microcephaly and other severe fetal abnormalities. To investigate the link between ZIKV infection and microcephaly, we analyzed archived blood samples from mothers who gave birth in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012 to babies with microcephaly. We used commercially available human ZIKV IgM and IgG ELISA kits to test for the presence of ZIKV antibodies in the mothers' blood. Our findings suggest that ZIKV may have been circulating in Hawaii as early as 2013, even before the current outbreak began. This information could help public health officials better understand and prepare for future ZIKV outbreaks.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a skin disease caused by a type of bacteria called Mycobacterium ulcerans (MU). BU is common in many African countries, including Ghana, Togo, Cote d’Ivoire, and Benin. MU is found in water bodies, such as slow-moving rivers, ponds, and wetlands. It is unclear how people get infected with MU, but it is thought to be from frequent contact with these water sources. Within these water bodies, MU can be found in certain places, like at the air-water interface and in places where the water is dark and not exposed to light. From these places, MU can infect people. In the past, studies have focused on comparing MU from different geographical areas, but none have looked at the MU from both human and environmental sources. In this study, we compared MU from humans and their environment in four communities in Ghana. We found that the MU from humans and the environment were likely to be the same. We also looked at small mammals like grasscutters and found that they may be able to get infected with MU and possibly act as reservoirs of the disease. Using a holistic approach that takes into account humans, animals, and the environment, we came up with a transmission model for how people might get infected with MU.
The paper explains how the number of species that are introduced to a location, also known as colonization pressure, affects the species richness of that location. The authors collected data on bird species that have been introduced around the world and where they came from, when they were introduced, and how successful they were in establishing populations. They also looked at other factors that could affect the success of these introductions, such as the environment and competition with native birds. The authors then used this data to analyze how all these factors affect the number of alien bird species in a location. They found that the number of successful introductions was largely determined by planned releases associated with British colonial expansion in the past, while recent introductions were more likely to be unplanned and associated with increased economic activity. The authors also found that species richness was affected by a combination of human and biotic factors, but that attempts to model species richness without information on colonization pressure could have problems inferring causality.
The nucleolus is an important structure inside the cell's nucleus that helps make ribosomes and control the cell's growth and reproduction. Scientists have known that a protein called UBF is important for the nucleolus to work correctly. However, recent research has shown that UBF may have a different role in the nucleolus than previously thought. Scientists have found that in mouse and human cells, there are 200 copies of the genes that make up the ribosome (rRNAs) located at specific areas in the chromosomes. These areas are called nucleolar organizers (NORs). Scientists have found that UBF helps to maintain the activity of the rRNA genes and that without UBF, the ribosome cannot function properly. However, scientists have also found that UBF may have other roles in the nucleolus, such as changing the chromatin structure of the rRNA genes. This change in chromatin structure may be why the rRNA genes are not active without UBF. Scientists have also found that UBF is not essential for the activity of other genes involved in ribosome biogenesis, meaning that the nucleolus can function without these genes. Finally, scientists have found that UBF plays a role in the formation of somatic nucleolar precursor bodies, which are small areas in the cell where ribosomes are assembled. These areas are different from the chromosomal rDNA loci where the rRNA genes are located. These findings show that UBF is important for the nucleolus to work properly and that it plays a role in changing the chromatin structure of the rRNA genes.
The paper describes the role of the protein Wnt (specifically, Wingless, or Wg, in Drosophila) in tissue patterning. Wg is a morphogen that spreads from its source and activates signaling in distant cells to direct tissue patterning. Wg targets two classes of genes: high-threshold genes that are expressed near the source where Wg concentrations are at their peak, and low-threshold genes that are expressed at a distance from the source where Wg concentrations are lower. The paper shows that Wg spreads from its source to form a concentration gradient that acts to instruct tissue patterning over a long range. Recent studies have replaced the wild-type version of Wg with a tethered version that cannot move from the source. These studies have shown that the long-range action of Wg is dispensable for tissue patterning. However, the paper challenges this conclusion by examining the role of Wg in the adult intestine, where strong Wg expression occurs at every major compartment boundary. Wg target genes peak at these boundaries and decrease in a graded manner as a function of distance from these boundaries. The paper shows that if Wg is tethered, severe defects arise in the spatial range of Wg target gene activation, compartment boundary formation, stem cell proliferation and epithelial fate specification, bundling, striation, and pathfinding of visceral muscle fibers, communication between epithelium and muscle, gut folding, crosstalk with the Dpp signal transduction pathway and organismal viability and fitness. These defects are phenocopied by inhibition of Wg signaling in the developing adult intestinal epithelium. The paper concludes that the long-range action of Wg is required for proper development of the adult gut and calls for reassessment of the requirement for the direct, long-range action of Wg in tissue patterning.
In this study, the researchers explore the role of a protein called plasminogen in the disease caused by group A streptococcus (GAS). Plasminogen is found in the blood and other fluids in the body and is converted into a protein called plasmin, which helps to break down clots and other substances. GAS bacteria produce a protein called streptokinase (Ska) that helps to activate plasminogen. However, a study has shown that while deleting Ska from GAS bacteria attenuates its virulence, it does not completely eliminate it. This suggests that there may be other factors at play, such as host activators of plasminogen. The researchers used a new mouse model of GAS infection and isogenic (very similar) GAS mutants to investigate the role of a host protein called urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) in GAS disease. They found that uPA is localized on the surface of human cells that contribute to immune defense against bacterial infection, and is upregulated (increased) in response to bacterial sepsis. The researchers also found that deleting the gene for uPA from the GAS chromosome significantly attenuated the virulence of the bacteria, even in the absence of Ska. This suggests that uPA plays a crucial role in the disease caused by GAS and could be a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
The study examines a protein called CagL, which is important for the cag pathogenicity island (cag PAI) of Helicobacter pylori. The cag PAI is a genetic region that is found in some H. pylori strains and is associated with an increased risk of gastric diseases such as peptic ulcers and gastric cancer. CagL is a 26 kDa protein that is produced by the cag PAI and is important for the ability of H. pylori to translocate a protein called CagA into host cells. The study finds that CagL is part of a subassembly of cag PAI proteins that is involved in the function of the cag T4SS, which is a type of system for delivering proteins from H. pylori into host cells. The study also finds that CagL can bind to an integrin on host cells, which may be important for the ability of H. pylori to adhere to host cells. The study provides evidence for the roles of CagH and CagI, which are also produced by the cag PAI, in the function of the cag T4SS. The study also provides evidence for the importance of a conserved hexapeptide motif in CagI and CagL for the function of the cag T4SS and the formation of pili on the surface of H. pylori. The study highlights the importance of understanding the unique cag PAI of H. pylori and the mechanisms by which it functions in the development of gastric diseases.
Bovine tuberculosis (bTB) is a disease that affects cows and causes a lot of economic losses to farmers worldwide. The disease is caused by a bacteria called Mycobacterium bovis. In Great Britain, the incidence of bTB has been increasing since 1988 and by 2010, about 11% of the national herd were under restrictions due to the disease. This has resulted in a significant amount of money being spent on controlling bTB, but more needs to be done. BCG vaccination is the current strategy for controlling bTB in cows, but it has had limited success. Several new strategies have been developed to improve the effectiveness of BCG vaccination, such as DNA vaccines, protein subunit vaccines, and live recombinant viruses. However, there is currently no way to predict which cows will be protected from bTB after being vaccinated. Researchers are looking for a way to predict which cows will be protected from bTB after being vaccinated so that they can use this as a "go/no-go" decision point for further candidate vaccine testing. To do this, they are using tools that measure an integrated host response, rather than just looking at individual characteristics of the immune response. These tools are changing with time and technological development, and they are now able to measure the changes in gene expression at the whole transcriptome level using microarrays and new generation sequencing methods.
In this study, researchers investigate how microtubules are organized at non-centrosomal microtubule organizing centers (ncMTOCs) in animal cells. They do this by studying the role of specific proteins involved in MTOC activity in C. elegans intestinal cells. They find that some of these proteins are essential for localizing other MTOC proteins at ncMTOCs, but not for organizing microtubules at these sites. They also find that some proteins are only required for organizing microtubules at the centrosome and not at ncMTOCs. Overall, this study highlights the differences between the centrosome and ncMTOCs and provides insights into the molecular basis of MTOC activity at these sites.
Whole genome sequencing allows us to determine the sequence of all the nucleotides in an individual's genome, which contains over 3.2 billion base pairs. This can help us identify disease-causing mutations, and can also be used to diagnose, predict the outcome of a disease, and determine the best treatment. However, there are some issues with current sequencing technologies that make it difficult to determine the unique sequence of each of the two chromosome pairs in the genome. In addition, some types of genetic variants, such as insertions/deletions and complex copy number variants, are hard to identify. Phase information, which tells us which copy of each chromosome pair the variants came from, is crucial for understanding how genetic variants affect a person's traits and health. Currently, most sequencing strategies don't provide phase information. However, there are a number of methods being developed to determine phase information, including using laboratory methods, computational methods, and using information from the parents of the person being sequenced. Our study compared the accuracy of different methods for determining phase information, including laboratory-based methods and computational methods. We used the publicly available genome of a European female individual to conduct our study. We found that hybrid computational methods were accurate and cost-effective, and performed nearly as well as laboratory-based methods.
The flagellum is a tiny motor that helps bacteria swim in liquids and move on surfaces. It is made up of several parts, including the fT3SS, which is related to virulence-associated T3SS. The fT3SS helps the bacteria move and adhere to surfaces, and it also helps the bacteria enter host cells. The fT3SS is made up of several parts that work together to transport proteins across the cell membrane. These parts include FliHIJ, FlhAB, FlhB, FlhA, FliO, FliP, FliQ, FliR, and a cytoplasmic ATPase complex. The ATPase is a protein that helps the proteins move across the membrane. The FliJ protein is an important part of the ATPase complex. It helps the proteins unfold and move across the membrane. It is thought that the energy for the movement comes from ATP hydrolysis. However, a recent study showed that the movement can also be driven by the proton motive force (PMF). This means that the energy comes from a protein gradient that is made up of the ΔpH and the membrane potential. In addition to its role in protein movement, FliJ has several other functions. It helps to prevent premature aggregation of the proteins, and it also helps to recruit specific chaperones to the proteins during assembly. It also helps the ATPase form a hexameric ring, which stimulates its activity. The vT3SS is a related version of the fT3SS and it is encoded on Salmonella Pathogenicity Islands 1 and 2. The ATPase associated with the vT3SS is called InvC. It helps to recognize and unfold the effector substrate in an ATP-dependent manner.
Bistability, a phenomenon in which a system has two stable states, is found in many cellular biological networks. This study used mathematical tools to find new network architectures with the potential for bistability in small gene regulatory networks. The study identified 36,771 bistable network architectures out of a total of 40,680. Approximately 40% of these were confirmed as bistable using existing computational tools, while the remaining 60% were confirmed using a new concept called network ancestry. This concept identifies bistable subnetworks within larger networks and how their presence can establish bistability. The study used experimental data from yeast to identify bistable modules that have not been fully explored in functional genomics. This study highlights the potential of parameter-free modeling in simplifying the study of complex regulatory networks, understanding network evolution, and designing new synthetic biological circuits.
Orofacial clefts are birth defects that occur when the lip and palate fail to fuse properly during development. They can appear alone (non-syndromic) or as part of a genetic syndrome (syndromic). Non-syndromic clefts occur in 70% of cases and are associated with multiple genetic risk factors. Syndromic clefts occur in 30% of cases and are associated with a wide range of genetic syndromes, including congenital heart disease. In the current study, researchers identified a new genetic cause of orofacial clefting in humans and mice. They found that mutations in the gene HYAL2 are associated with cor triatriatum sinister, a rare congenital heart disease characterized by the division of the left atrium. This is the first molecular basis for cor triatriatum sinister in humans. The study highlights the importance of hyaluronan turnover in normal development.
Stereocilia are small hair-like structures on hair cells in the inner ear that are responsible for hearing. When exposed to sound, these structures move and stretch, causing tiny filaments called tip links to tug on hair cells, triggering an electrical response. Tip links are made up of two proteins, CDH23 and PCDH15. Researchers found that when these proteins are removed from hair cells, the tip links can regenerate and restore hair cell function. The researchers used a technique called backscatter electron scanning microscopy to observe the regeneration process and found that new tip links are formed with both PCDH15 and CDH23 at the ends, but not in the expected heteromeric complex. The researchers believe that PCDH15 substitutes for CDH23 to accelerate the recovery of hair cell function.
Dengue is a disease that is caused by four types of viruses. It is common in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, and millions of people get sick from it each year. The symptoms of dengue can range from a mild fever to a life-threatening condition called dengue hemorrhagic fever. There is no specific treatment for dengue, and the management of severe cases is mostly supportive. The pathogenesis of dengue is not fully understood, and this makes it difficult to treat severe cases. Metabolomics is a way of studying the chemical composition of cells in order to understand how the cells are affected by diseases. In this study, researchers compared the chemical composition of serum (a type of blood) from people with mild dengue and those with severe dengue at different phases of the disease. They found that the chemical composition of the serum was different between the two groups. These differences could help to explain how the disease progresses from mild to severe. The researchers also found that some of the differences in chemical composition were still present even after the severe form of the disease went into recovery. This suggests that the disease can have long-term effects on the body. Overall, the study provides insights into the mechanisms of dengue pathogenesis.
The enzyme Guanosine 5'-monophosphate reductase (GMPR) converts Guanosine 5'-monophosphate (GMP) to inosine 5'-monophosphate (IMP) using NADPH as a cofactor. This reaction is important for the recycling of guanine nucleotides into adenine nucleotides. GMPR has been studied in bacteria, humans, and other organisms, including parasitic protozoa. In this study, we examined the activity of the recombinant protein from a gene annotated as Guanosine 5'-monophosphate reductase in the parasite Trypanosoma brucei. We also studied the subcellular localization of the enzyme in T. brucei bloodstream forms. We found that the enzyme is active in T. brucei, but it was not as efficient as the GMPRs in host animals. Furthermore, we discovered that Ribavirin 5'-monophosphate, a purine nucleotide analog, was a weak inhibitor of T. brucei GMPR. These results suggest that T. brucei GMPR is a potential target for drug development against African sleeping sickness.
The article introduces the topic of voltage-gated sodium channels (Navs) and their role in nerve and muscular function. It explains that Navs can be targeted by small organic molecules, which are called local anesthetics, to block the flow of ions and reduce electrical activity in cells. The article then discusses how different local anesthetics target different areas of Navs, such as the pore, and how this can lead to different effects on neuronal activity. It also explains how different types of sodium channels, which are called eNavs, can be targeted by local anesthetics in different ways. Finally, the article describes how new techniques, such as molecular dynamics simulations, are being used to better understand how local anesthetics work on Navs, and how this could lead to the development of new and more specific sodium channel blockers in the future.
This study investigates the role of MyD88 signaling in the host defense during infection with Citrobacter rodentium, a non-invasive bacterial pathogen. MyD88 signaling is a critical component of the immune response and helps protect the host from infection. However, the specific cell types that contribute to this immune response are not well understood. In this study, the authors used a knock-in mouse model for cell type-specific expression of MyD88 to investigate the roles of MyD88 in specific cell types during infection. They found that functional MyD88 in CD11c+ mononuclear phagocytes (MNP) is sufficient to activate innate lymphoid cells (ILC3) and protect mice during the early phase of infection. In contrast, MyD88 signaling in monocyte-derived macrophages (MO) and ILC3 or T cells alone was not sufficient to induce a significant immune response. The study also highlights the importance of IEC-intrinsic MyD88 signaling for maintaining the epithelial barrier during infection. Overall, the findings of this study provide important insights into the roles of MyD88 signaling in the host defense during infection with Citrobacter rodentium.
Onchocerciasis, or "river blindness," is a disease caused by a parasitic worm that can lead to blindness, skin lesions, and severe itching. In the 1990s, about 37 million people were affected by the disease. The Onchocerciasis Control Programme in West Africa, which was active from 1974 to 2002, helped to eliminate the disease as a major public health problem. The African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control (APOC) was launched in 1995 and continued treatment in the remaining 19 endemic countries. APOC shifted its focus from control to elimination in 2015, but continued effort is needed to reach the goal of elimination. The current guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of elimination efforts recommend using entomological evaluation by O-150 polymerase chain reaction (pool screen) testing in blackflies and Ov16 serology testing in children less than 10 years of age. Skin snip microscopy, which is used to detect active infection, is less sensitive in areas with low prevalence and intensity of infection. A new rapid diagnostic test (RDT) for detecting IgG4 antibodies against Ov16 has recently been developed. The World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines acknowledge that the evidence on the usefulness of Ov16 antibody tests for assessing interruption of transmission is still limited. The diagnostic accuracy of Ov16 antibody tests has mostly been assessed in populations with high onchocerciasis prevalence. In this study, the authors extended a previously developed simulation model, ONCHOSIM, to include information on the Ov16 antibody serostatus of simulated individuals. They explored how the Ov16 antibody prevalence in children is related to local transmission conditions, the duration and coverage of mass treatment, test characteristics, mf prevalence, and the probability that the infection is eventually eliminated.
Prions are infectious agents that cause brain disease in humans and animals. They are made of aggregates of altered versions of a host protein called PrPSc. PrPSc can be in two forms: PrPsen (sensitive to proteinase K) and PrPres (resistant to proteinase K). Murine prions come in different strains that can be distinguished by their behavior towards certain cells. Some of these strains are R33-competent (meaning they can infect certain cells) and swa-resistant (meaning they can infect certain cells in the presence of a drug). However, when swa-sensitive prions are grown in the presence of the drug, the prion population becomes swa-resistant. RML prions are swa-sensitive, meaning they cannot infect certain cells in the presence of the drug. However, three subclones of a cell line infected with RML prions became swa-resistant or swa-dependent, meaning they were propagated more efficiently in the presence of the drug. This suggests that RML prions contain a low level of variants that can be selected in the presence of the drug to yield swa-resistant RML populations. We think that some cell line-dependent feature may be responsible for this difference.
This paper presents a comprehensive map of the relationship between the genotype and the phenotype of metabolic systems. Metabolism refers to the set of chemical reactions that occur within an organism to extract energy from the environment and produce necessary molecules for growth and reproduction. The paper focuses on central carbon metabolism, a network of reactions that extract energy from carbon sources like glucose. The authors represent the genotype of a metabolism as a binary string of reactions, and use computational methods to predict its phenotype. By varying the genotype, they explore the relationship between genotype and phenotype, and find that metabolic innovation, which refers to changes in metabolic reactions leading to new metabolic phenotypes, is possible. The authors also find that genotype networks, which represent the relationship between different metabolic genotypes, abut each other in metabolic genotype space, suggesting that metabolic innovation is conducive to the organization of metabolic genotype space.
Triatoma dimidiata is a type of bug that can spread Chagas disease. This disease is caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi, and it can cause heart disease. The bug can be found in many different places, including forests, caves, grasslands, and even homes. There are three different types of this bug, and they all have different genetic features. Some of them are better spreaders of the disease than others. Scientists studied these bugs and their genetic features to understand how they spread the disease and to help control it. They found that the bugs have different levels of infection and different types of parasites. This suggests that some bugs might be better spreaders of the disease than others, which could help in controlling the disease.
Hantavirus is a disease that causes hemorrhagic fever in humans. The disease is caused by two types of viruses in China, Hantaan virus (HTNV) and Seoul virus (SEOV), and it is spread by inhaling viral particles in the urine, feces, and saliva of infected rodents. Hunan Province, which is located in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River in central China, is one of the areas where hantavirus infections are most common. Chenzhou is a city in Hunan Province that is a typical hotspot for hantavirus infections. SEOV is the dominant strain in Chenzhou and its main hosts are Rattus norvegicus, Rattus flavipectus, and Mus musculus, while HTNV is hosted by Apodemus agrarius. The transmission of hantavirus to humans depends on the frequency of contact between humans and rodents, as well as external environmental factors. A. agrarius prefers humid and food-rich environments and is abundant in forested regions and fields, while R. norvegicus is found predominantly in residential areas and is the main vector for zoonotic diseases in rural and urban populations. Environmental factors such as temperature, rainfall, and elevation can influence the occurrence of HFRS by affecting the reservoir hosts and their living conditions. The purpose of this study was to determine how the rodent community composition influences the risk of contracting a human hantavirus infection in different environments. Building reliable models that can quantify the relationships among the environment, rodent populations, and the occurrences of human HFRS can help to predict the risk of HFRS occurrence to help prevent and control HFRS epidemics.
In the 1980s, scientists identified a specific gene called HRAS that was linked to cancer. The HRAS gene produces a protein that helps cells grow, survive, and divide. Mutations in this gene can cause cancer. One of the most common HRAS mutations is called Gly12Val, which changes one amino acid in the protein. This mutation is found in about 20% of people with Costello syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that can lead to cancer. Researchers have found that this mutation can change how the gene is spliced, meaning that parts of the gene are skipped over when it is being processed into a protein. This can lead to a protein that does not work properly. To study how this mutation affects splicing, researchers used a technique called "splice switching oligonucleotides" to change how the gene is spliced. This technique may be used in the future to treat some types of cancer.
A methyl group is added to a type of RNA molecule called mRNA by an enzyme called METTL3. This modification, called m6A, is important for many different processes in the brain, including regulating how long mRNAs last and how efficiently they are translated into proteins. The mouse brain has been studied in detail, and it has been found that the addition of m6A is important for the development of the cerebellum, which is responsible for coordinating movements. When m6A levels are reduced in the brain, there is an increase in the number of apoptotic (dying) cells in the cerebellum, which results in cerebellar hypoplasia (smaller size) and ataxia-like movement disorders. It has also been found that loss of m6A causes extended mRNA half-lives and aberrant mRNA splicing events, which leads to inappropriate cell differentiation and cell death. Overall, the study suggests that METTL3-mediated m6A plays a key role in regulating cerebellar development and brain function.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells are taken from the inner cell mass of the blastocyst. During normal development, implantation of the blastocyst results in the further differentiation of distinct cell types. These cells form the tissues and organs of the developing embryo. This pluripotent state makes ES cells a unique in vitro cellular model system to study early embryogenesis. A set of transcription factors, including OCT4, plays a key role in maintaining this state. These transcription factors have the ability to induce pluripotency in mouse and human somatic cells by ectopic expression of OCT4 and SOX2 together with either KLF4 and c-MYC or NANOG and LIN28. ChIP-Seq data pinpoints transcription factor binding sites not only in predefined regions such as promoters, but in an unbiased way genome-wide. However, the high sensitivity comes along with a low specificity, making the identification of functional sites challenging. To understand self-renewal and pluripotency at the level of transcriptional regulation, it is crucial to identify a reliable set of regulatory elements that actively contribute to the regulation of gene expression in pluripotent cells such as embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells. The authors investigate the association of these elements with the transcriptional co-activator Mediator, histone modifications, and gene expression to test whether the interactions of transcription factors provide a link between binding and activation of their target genes. They found that combinatorial binding of Oct4, Sox2, and Nanog is associated with increased expression of nearby genes. Integration of genome-wide binding data from mouse and human ES and embryonal carcinoma (EC/NCCIT) cells and mouse developmental tissues allows the authors to study the evolution of gene regulation in the light of combinatorial binding and developmental activity in mammalian cells using an in vitro system. Their analysis indicates that both characteristics contribute to the evolutionary constraint on regulatory elements and suggests that the integrated data represents an essential set of conserved enhancers that links pluripotency with early embryonal development.
The research paper describes how a specific type of leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia (AML), is caused by certain genetic mutations. These mutations cause the cells to produce a fusion protein that is harmful to the body. This fusion protein is made up of two parts: the AML1 gene and the ETO gene. The AML1 gene is important for making blood cells, while the ETO gene is important for making cells in various parts of the body. When these two genes fuse together, they make a protein that stops blood cell development at an early stage and causes the cells to become cancerous. This research paper shows that the fusion protein is able to bind to specific parts of DNA, and it also shows that another protein, HEB, also binds to DNA and may help the fusion protein to bind to DNA and cause cancer.
Histones are proteins that help organize DNA into a compact structure in the nucleus of a cell. These proteins can be chemically modified in a variety of ways, such as by adding an acetyl group to a specific chemical group. These modifications can affect how the DNA is organized and accessed, which can affect processes such as DNA replication and repair. Leishmania donovani is a type of parasite that causes a disease called Visceral Leishmaniasis. This parasite has a different type of histone than humans do. There are four enzymes in the parasite that can add acetyl groups to these histones. Deleting any of these enzymes can affect how the DNA is organized and accessed. This can lead to problems with DNA replication and repair. A recent study has looked at one of these enzymes, called HAT2, in more detail. It has uncovered new information about how gene regulation works in Leishmania donovani.
In this study, the authors wanted to understand how people infer on the intentions of others when those intentions are changing over time. They used a computer model called a "partial observable Markov decision process" (POMDP) to try to understand how people build a model of another person's intentions and use it to make predictions. They also looked at how people use "recursive thinking" to understand others. The authors then applied these models to behavioral data from a new experimental paradigm. In this paradigm, people had to make decisions based on information from a person with conflicting interests. The authors found that people were able to use hierarchical learning to understand the intentions of others and make accurate predictions. They also found that people relied more on social advice when the information from the adviser was more accurate, even though there was a higher degree of uncertainty.
Scrub typhus is a disease caused by a mite-borne infection that is endemic in a certain region in Asia, Australia, and the Far East. This region is known as the Indian subcontinent, northern Australia, and the Far East. The risk of infection is higher in rural areas and is associated with farming activities. The disease is transmitted by mites. These mites are usually found in mountainous regions and rural areas, but recently, there have been cases of the disease in Seoul, the largest city in South Korea. The disease has emerged in urban areas and has become a significant problem in clinical practices. The study investigates the current status of urban scrub typhus in Seoul and its clinical characteristics. The study also prospectively determined the causative vector mites in the city.
The RNA silencing pathways are mechanisms that regulate gene expression and protect the genome. They are characterized by the presence of a protein from the Argonaute family that derives its specificity from a bound small RNA molecule. Multiple different Argonaute paralogs exist, and the type of Argonaute protein will determine the effect of the RNA silencing pathway. These Argonaute proteins have a characteristic domain structure, consisting of an N-terminal region, PAZ, MID and PIWI domains. The PAZ and MID domains function in binding the 3′ and 5′ ends of the small RNA, respectively, while the PIWI domain exposes the small RNA so that it can base pair with a potential target RNA molecule. The PIWI domain itself has an RNaseH-like fold and can endo-nucleolytically cleave the targeted RNA. However, in some Argonaute proteins, amino acids at key catalytic positions are incompatible with hydrolysis, likely crippling enzymatic activity. sRNA molecules that are formed through biochemical routes involving either double-stranded or single-stranded RNA precursors are used in these pathways. When double-stranded RNA is involved, the enzyme Dicer produces sRNAs. However, when single-stranded RNA is used, the process of sRNA production is less understood. In some pathways, endonucleases create the 5′ ends of new sRNAs, which are then bound by an Argonaute protein after which the 3′ end of the RNA is trimmed to fit the Argonaute protein. In other pathways, RNA-dependent RNA polymerases synthesize stretches of RNA that are directly bound by Argonaute proteins. These sRNAs are characterized by a 5′-triphosphate group. The enzyme responsible for this, HEN1, has been described in plants, and HEN1 homologues have been described in Drosophila, mouse, Tetrahymena, and zebrafish. HEN1 activity has been intimately linked with piRNA biogenesis; it likely acts on the piRNA precursor while it is already bound by a Piwi protein. Consistent with this idea, miR-277 in Drosophila can be found methylated or not depending on whether it has been loaded into Ago1 or Ago2. Ago proteins hosting methylated sRNAs have an adapted PAZ domain that allows and prefers a 2′-O-methylated base at the 3′ end of the sRNA. Functionally, it has become clear that 3′ end methylation can protect sRNAs from the non-templated addition of uridine residues, which in turn have been suggested to trigger degradation of sRNAs. Uridylation of sRNAs has been shown to be especially relevant for sRNAs displaying extensive complementarity with their targets, reaching out to their 3′ ends. The mechanism behind this observation likely involves release of the 3′ends of such highly complementary sRNAs from the PAZ domain, making them accessible for 3′end modifying activities. In the nematode C. elegans, a large number of endogenous RNA silencing pathways have been identified, each being characterized by specific types of Argonaute proteins and their bound sRNA cofactors. One of these is the highly conserved miRNA pathway, mediated by the Argonaute proteins ALG-1 and ALG-2. Other RNA silencing pathways in C. elegans are the 26G, 21U, and 22G pathways. These names reflect the size of the sRNA cofactors involved and the prevalence of G or U residues at their 5′ ends. In oocytes and embryos, a Piwi-related Argonaute protein, ERGO-1, binds 26G RNAs, while during spermatogenesis the ALG-1/2-related Argonaute proteins ALG-3 and ALG-4 act as 26G RNA hosts. The C. elegans Dicer homologue DCR-1 has been shown to be required for 26G RNA production, presumably using dsRNA that is produced through the action of the RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP) enzyme RRF-3. The targets of the 26G pathways are readily identified as they display perfect sequence complementarity to the genes from which they are derived. 21U RNAs are bound by the Piwi-type Argonaute proteins PRG-1 and PRG-2. The biogenesis of 21U RNAs is poorly understood. Their genomic templates are clustered in specific regions on one chromosome and each 21U locus is characterized by a specific upstream motif that may serve either as an RNA processing signal or as a promoter element. No further components related to 21U RNA biogenesis have been identified. For most 21U RNAs, no perfectly complementary sequences other than their regions of origin are present in the C. elegans genome. However, a small number of 21U RNAs target the DNA transposon Tc3, resulting in 22G RNA production from Tc3 elements. In general terms, it is difficult to predict targets of 21U RNAs purely based on sequence homology. In some cases, the Piwi proteins PRG-1 and PRG-2 do have endogenous functions and that therefore 21U RNAs do have endogenous targets. Indeed, in recent work, Bagijn et al. identify 21U RNA targets displaying varying degrees of target complementarity [32]. Ago proteins hosting methylated sRNAs have an adapted PAZ domain that allows and prefers a 2′-O-methylated base at the 3′ end of the sRNA. Functionally, it has become clear that 3′ end methylation can protect sRNAs from the non-templated addition of uridine residues, which in turn have been suggested to trigger degradation of sRNAs. Uridylation of sRNAs has been shown to be especially relevant for sRNAs displaying extensive complementarity with their targets, reaching out to their 3′ ends. The mechanism behind this observation likely involves release of the 3′ends of such highly complementary sRNAs from the PAZ domain, making them accessible for 3′end modifying activities. In the nematode C. elegans, a large number of endogenous RNA silencing pathways have been identified, each being characterized by specific types of Argonaute proteins and their bound sRNA cofactors. One of these is the highly conserved miRNA pathway, mediated by the Argonaute proteins ALG-1 and ALG-2. Other RNA silencing pathways in C. elegans are the 26G, 21U, and 22G pathways. These names reflect the size of the sRNA cofactors involved and the prevalence of G or U residues at their 5′ ends. In oocytes and embryos, a Piwi-related Argonaute protein, ERGO-1, binds 26G RNAs, while during spermatogenesis the ALG-1/2-related Argonaute proteins ALG-3 and ALG-4 act as 26G RNA hosts. The C. elegans Dicer homologue DCR-1 has been shown to be required for 26G RNA production, presumably using dsRNA that is produced through the action of the RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP) enzyme RRF-3. The targets of the 26G pathways are readily identified as they display perfect sequence complementarity to the genes from which they are derived. 21U RNAs are bound by the Piwi-type Argonaute proteins PRG-1 and PRG-2. The biogenesis of 21U RNAs is poorly understood. Their genomic templates are clustered in specific regions on one chromosome and each 21U locus is characterized by a specific upstream motif that may serve either as an RNA processing signal or as a promoter element. No further components related to 21U RNA biogenesis have been identified. For most 21U RNAs, no perfectly complementary sequences other than their regions of origin are present in the C. elegans genome. However, a small number of 21U RNAs target the DNA transposon Tc3, resulting in 22G RNA production from Tc3 elements. In general terms, it is difficult to predict targets of 21U RNAs purely based on sequence homology. In some cases, the Piwi proteins PRG-1 and PRG-2 do have endogenous functions and
The glycoproteome, the collection of all proteins with attached glycans, is more complex than the proteome because the addition of glycans changes the structure and activity of the proteins. Glycosylation is important for normal physiological processes and is involved in the development of many diseases. Changes in the levels of fucosylated glycans have been associated with several important pathological processes, including cancer. The transcription factors HNF1α and HNF4α regulate gene expression in the liver and pancreas in a tissue-specific manner and are key regulators of metabolic genes. Mutations in the genes encoding HNF1α and HNF4α cause Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young. Recently, HNF1α and HNF4α single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been associated with plasma C-reactive protein (CRP), LDL cholesterol, and gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT). There is little evidence linking these transcription factors with fucose metabolism and the upstream mechanisms regulating fucosylation pathways are unknown.
Centromeres are important parts of the genome that help connect chromosomes to spindles. In most plant and animal genomes, diagnostic repeats can be used to identify centromere boundaries, but unlike in fungi, these sequences are not always necessary for organizing a functional kinetochore. How kinetochores are accurately replicated is unknown and generally described as epigenetic. CENH3 is an important epigenetic identifier of centromeres, and in the absence of CENH3, all other kinetochore proteins fail to localize and chromosomes cannot move on the spindle. CENH3 is assembled relatively late in the cell cycle, and in addition to CENH3, several other proteins require CENH3 for localization and also serve to target new CENH3. One such protein is Centromere protein C (CENPC), which has a key role in centromere recognition and maintenance. Drosophila CENPC is required to target CENH3, but CENH3 is also required to target CENPC. These data suggest that kinetochore replication is a self-reinforcing process whereby key inner kinetochore proteins such as CENPC work in concert with CENH3 to replicate the content and position of centromeres. In species such as maize, the available data suggest that centromeric DNA does not function to recruit kinetochores until it is combined with specific epigenetic marks. Maize centromere repeats are under-methylated and transcribed to produce stable RNAs that remain tightly bound to chromatin. The centromeric RNAs are 40–200 nt in length, transcribed from both strands, and maintained in the single-stranded state. It was proposed that RNA may serve as a structural template to help recruit kinetochore proteins. A recent study revealed that human centromeres contain similar RNAs and established that RNAse treatment delocalizes CENPC from mature kinetochores. More recent data show that suppression of transcription over a single LINE element in a human neocentromere impairs the formation of a kinetochore complex. These data support the view that RNA facilitates or stabilizes the association of kinetochore proteins with centromeric DNA and implicate CENPC as a primary target of this activity. CENPC is a highly divergent protein defined by a short 23 amino acids motif. Outside the defining motif lies the DNA binding region, which in animals appears to be distributed in several broad domains. In plants, there is no evidence that CENPC binds to centromeric DNA beyond the presumption that CENPC is functionally conserved. In this regard, we used a combination of in vitro and in vivo studies to show that maize CENPC has both DNA-binding and RNA-binding capacities, that the DNA/RNA-binding domain is localized to the exon duplication region, and that the binding domain is required for efficient centromere localization. We further showed that RNA directly facilitates the binding of CENPC to DNA in vitro, providing a biochemical mechanism for the involvement of RNA in centromere specification. We argued that CENPC and RNA are a part of the template that directs CENH3 to newly replicated centromere DNA.
Birth weight is determined by fetal and maternal factors. It is strongly associated with diseases later in life, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Childhood obesity is also linked to health problems later in life. The placenta is an important organ for fetal growth and development. It controls the fetus's access to nutrients, hormone production, and mitigation of adverse effects from the environment. The placenta is a transcriptionally active tissue, and its activity is largely controlled by fetal genetics. Genome-wide association studies have identified genetic variants associated with birth weight, childhood obesity, and childhood body mass index. The regulatory effect of a genetic polymorphism on outcomes varies spatially, temporally, and in response to differing environmental exposures and influences. An eQTL analysis provides a profile of significant associations between transcription levels of a gene and genetic polymorphisms. In this study, we compared placenta eQTLs with 7 STARNET adult tissue eQTLs. We also applied COLOC and MetaXcan analyses on placenta eQTLs integrated with GWAS data. The results of this study could help us understand the in utero genes and pathways that influence neonatal and long-term child health outcomes.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by parasites that can affect the skin, spleen, liver, and other organs. PKDL, a sequel of leishmaniasis, is a dermal manifestation that appears in some patients who have been successfully treated for visceral leishmaniasis (VL). PKDL causes a macular, maculopapular, or nodular rash due to parasites from L. donovani. PKDL is a common problem in some countries, including India and Sudan, and can be more common in patients who were treated with sodium stibogluconate. However, the incidence of PKDL varies depending on the duration, type, and dose of drug used. Diagnosis of PKDL can be challenging because it is difficult to detect the parasites from skin lesions using microscopic examination. PCR-based molecular diagnostic methods have been shown to be effective in diagnosing PKDL, but they have not been widely used in the field. Treatment of PKDL can be complex and long, and there is a need for shorter-duration regimens and more effective diagnostic methods to aid in the elimination of VL.
The paper is about how certain bacteria can sense their environment and coordinate their behavior in response to a chemical signal, called "auto-inducer" (AI), that they produce themselves. This process is called "quorum sensing" (QS). The paper explains how the QS system works in Vibrio fischeri and Streptococcus pneumoniae. It also explains how QS systems differ across different bacteria. The paper focuses on the QS system in Streptococcus pneumoniae, which is involved in genetic competence, a process that allows bacteria to take up and integrate external DNA. The paper describes how genetic competence develops in liquid cultures of Streptococcus pneumoniae and how it is regulated by a specific chemical signal, called "competence stimulating peptide" (CSP). The paper explains how the CSP-based system works in Streptococcus pneumoniae and how it differs from other QS systems. The paper also explains how genetic competence is regulated by the ComABCDE module. The paper presents genetic evidence that suggests that genetic competence development in Streptococcus pneumoniae is not dependent on cell density, but on the metabolic state of the cells. The paper also shows that CSP can be transmitted from cell to cell and that ComD is required for non-competent cells to capture CSP from competent cells.
Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are small DNA viruses that infect the skin and cause benign lesions, genital warts, and cervical cancer. They have a non-enveloped icosahedral structure, consisting of 72 pentamers of the major capsid protein L1 and 20-40 copies of the minor capsid protein L2, which encapsidates the viral genome. Initial attachment of HPV16, the most common high-risk HPV type, is mediated by electrostatic interactions with heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) on the cell surface or extracellular matrix, followed by conformational changes that reveal masked epitopes and are cleaved by host proteases. The resulting virion is endocytosed in an actin-dependent manner and traffics through the endosomal pathway, where acidification promotes further capsid disassembly and degradation. L2/vDNA complexes bind to mitotic chromosomes in prometaphase and are transported to the nucleus, where they initiate early viral transcription and replication. The details of how the L2/vDNA complex makes the leap from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to the nucleus are unclear, but a recent report presents evidence that L2/vDNA remains in a vesicular compartment after egress from the TGN during mitosis. Using a novel assay, the authors found that inhibition of cellular processes and factors that are essential for L2/vDNA trafficking to the TGN, including furin, endosome acidification, cyclophilins, and γ-secretase, block L2 translocation. L2 translocation coincides with mitosis in synchronized cells and during the onset of mitosis, vDNA moves rapidly from the TGN to a pericentriolar region before associating with mitotic host chromosomes during prometaphase. The authors also present evidence that translocation is blocked in three different mutants of the newly defined chromatin binding region of L2, suggesting a functional link between the ability to bind chromatin and L2/vDNA translocation.
The influenza virus, also known as the flu, can mutate during replication and give rise to new strains. Sometimes, these strains can spread and become pandemic. Antiviral drugs can also contribute to the spread of new strains by putting pressure on the virus to mutate. In previous studies, our group has found that certain strains of the influenza virus can coexist in the same host and that they can transmit from one host to another. We have also used a mathematical framework to estimate the relative fitness of one strain compared to another. This information can be used to help predict which strain is more likely to become dominant in a population. In this study, we have introduced a new mathematical framework to better understand the transmission of influenza viruses and how different strains compete with each other. Our results can be used to help design experiments to study the spread of influenza viruses and to improve epidemiological models that help predict the spread of the flu.
Light is essential to plants for growth, energy and signaling. Plants have different types of photoreceptors, including phytochromes, cryptochromes, phototropins, and UVR8, that respond to different wavelengths of light. COP1 is a central repressor of photomorphogenesis induced by visible light, and HY5 is a bZIP protein that promotes photomorphogenesis. BBX proteins are zinc finger proteins that act as transcriptional regulators in response to light and circadian cues. CO is the first identified member of the BBX family and functions as a key player in the regulation of flowering by photoperiod. HY5 and BBX21/STH2 interact and both proteins promote photomorphogenesis. However, BBX18/DBB1a, BBX19/DBB1b, BBX24/SALT TOLERANCE (STO), and BBX25/STH1 repress photomorphogenesis and interact with HY5. ABA regulates several aspects of plant growth and development and is a key regulator of stomatal aperture. HY5 also regulates ABA signaling by directly binding to the promoter of ABI5 and is required for the expression of ABI5 and ABI5-targeted genes. Our genetic data suggest that BBX21 may act upstream of several ABI genes and HY5. Furthermore, we show that BBX21 negatively regulates ABI5 expression by interfering with HY5 binding to the ABI5 promoter. In addition, ABI5 binds to its own promoter and activates its expression, whereas BBX21 negatively regulates this activity. Overall, our data reveal a complicated but delicate control of crosstalk between light and ABA signaling in Arabidopsis.
Mediator is a protein complex that helps control gene expression in yeast, including S. cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Mediator works with other proteins and RNA polymerase II to activate or repress gene expression. This complex has four modules: Head, Middle, Tail, and Kinase. While the Head, Middle, and Tail modules play essential roles in gene expression, the Kinase module mainly functions in repression. The core Mediator, which is made up of the Head, Middle, and Tail modules, is involved in stress responses, sub-telomeric gene silencing, regulation of chromatin structure, and more. Recent studies in S. cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe found that the roles of Mediator are remarkably conserved despite the fact that these two yeasts are highly divergent. In addition, there are conserved roles of Mediator in C. albicans, including control of the cell wall adhesins, which are important for virulence. Recent studies also show that the roles of Mediator in C. albicans are different from those in S. cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, suggesting that the regulation of adhesion may be different between these yeast species. The study also found that the functions of Mediator in C. albicans are involved in phenotypes associated with pathogenesis, including filamentous growth and biofilm formation. These findings suggest that Mediator may be a good target for drug development against fungal infections.
Biofilms are collections of bacteria that stick together and live in a protective, slimy layer. They can be found everywhere, including in your body. The bacteria in a biofilm are usually more resistant to antibiotics than the ones that are floating around on their own, by up to 1000 times. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a type of bacteria that causes infections in people with cystic fibrosis and in hospitals. To combat these infections, doctors often use a medicine called tobramycin. However, the bacteria can develop mutations that make them even more resistant to tobramycin. To better understand why Pseudomonas aeruginosa is resistant to antibiotics, scientists have studied the genes that make the bacteria resistant. They have found many genes that make the bacteria resistant in either the biofilm or the planktonic (floating around) state. The scientists used a new method to study the genes that make the bacteria resistant in both states. They found that many different genes make the bacteria resistant in either the biofilm or planktonic state, and that the way that the bacteria live (either in a biofilm or floating around) affects how resistant they are to antibiotics.
Experiments in biology can provide information about the interactions between different components of a system over time, but it can be difficult to understand how these components interact and how they determine the behavior of the system as a whole. Mathematical models and information criteria, such as the Akaike information criterion, can help with this, but when there are many different components and interactions, there are many possible models to consider. To solve this problem, algorithms are used to search through all the possible models and find the best one. Different algorithms have been developed for different types of models, but there is a need for a more flexible algorithm that can handle more complex models. The Flexible and dynamic Algorithm for Model Selection (FAMoS) is a new algorithm that can handle complex models and large model spaces. It can also be customized to fit different types of data and models. The algorithm was tested using simulated data and then applied to analyze the proliferation dynamics of T cells in different environments. The results showed that the behavior of the T cells was influenced by the environment, and that the FAMoS algorithm was able to find the best model to describe the data.
The Trypanosoma cruzi parasite causes Chagas disease, which is mostly found in Latin America. People can get infected through triatomine bugs, blood transfusions, vertical transmission, organ transplantation, contaminated food, and laboratory accidents. Currently, two drugs are available to treat Chagas disease, nifurtimox and benznidazole (BNZ), but they have long treatment regimens and undesirable side effects. To be considered cured of Chagas disease, two different serological assays must show negative results. However, it takes a long time to observe this negativization, making it difficult to use serological assays as monitoring tools. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is an alternative method for early evaluation of infection and treatment efficacy. A molecular strategy called quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is a key tool for monitoring parasitological response during follow-up of the treatment in chronic Chagas disease patients. Additionally, BNZ has been suggested to be involved in host immune regulation by reducing the development of severe disease, leading to T- and B-cell activation with the participation of type 1-modulated cytokine pattern and increased levels of IFN-γ production that improves the chemotherapy efficacy. However, there is no clear relation to the effectiveness of the treatment with BNZ and cytokine profile. The Bolivia National Chagas Program has initiated a BNZ regimen of 5 mg/kg/day for 60 days in seropositive school-aged children in certified vector controlled areas. However, lack of information regarding treatment follow-up and efficacy in children makes it difficult to detect treatment failure. The present study aimed to estimate the blood levels of parasitemia using qPCR during a 12-month follow-up in school children with recent chronic Chagas from the Bolivia National Chagas Program. Additionally, the levels of Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines were estimated during the follow-up and compared to T . cruzi molecular detection outcomes to find out patterns of response to BNZ treatment.
The bacterium Neisseria meningitidis is a common commensal of the human respiratory tract but can cause a serious illness called meningitis. One of the reasons why it is able to cause disease is due to its ability to evade the host immune system. It does this by going through a process called phase variation, where it switches its outer surface proteins. This is done by the insertion of transposable elements, which are short repetitive sequences that can move around the genome. One such transposable element is the Correia element, which is present in over 250 copies in the genome. We found that Correia elements can act as promoters for nearby genes, influencing their expression. We also identified different subtypes of Correia elements with different promoter activities. We also found that some of the subtypes of Correia elements can influence the expression of nearby genes, such as the lst gene. We also looked at how Correia elements are distributed in the population. We did this by identifying the Correia elements that were most active and looking at their surrounding sequences. We found that Correia elements can play an important role in the meningococcal infection process, and that they are important determinants of meningococcal physiology.
The development and production of secondary metabolites is important for many fungi, including those that cause diseases in plants and animals. In filamentous fungi, two proteins, VeA and LaeA, are known to be key in controlling the development and production of secondary metabolites. These proteins have been studied in a few different fungi, including A. nidulans, F. fujikuroi, and A. flavus. VeA is known to act as a negative regulator of asexual development and a positive regulator of sexual development, while LaeA is known to be a positive regulator of sexual development and a negative regulator of asexual development. Both proteins also play a role in controlling the production of secondary metabolites. Recent research has shown that LaeA and VeA orthologous proteins are also important in controlling the production of secondary metabolites and virulence in the fungus C. heterostrophus. This fungus is a major cause of corn leaf blight and produces a toxin called T-toxin that is critical for its virulence. The study found that deletion of the ChLAE1 and ChVEL1 genes led to reduced virulence on corn and reduced production of T-toxin. The study also found that both proteins play a role in controlling other important aspects of fungal development and virulence, including oxidative stress tolerance, sexual development, and the production of other secondary metabolites. Overall, the study highlights the importance of these two proteins in controlling the development and virulence of fungi.
The article you are referring to is about a study that used computer modeling to understand the molecular mechanism of ion flow through voltage-gated ion channels. These channels are responsible for the electrical activity in our body, and dysfunctions in them can lead to many diseases. The study focused on two types of these channels, Nav and Kv, which regulate the flow of sodium and potassium ions, respectively. The authors used molecular dynamics simulations to understand the movement of these ions through the channels, based on their structure. They found that the structure of Nav and Kv channels is different, and this affects how the ions flow through them. The authors also found that the flow of potassium ions is blocked in the extracellular part of the channel, and that this is due to an asymmetry in the channel. This means that there is a barrier to potassium flow in one direction, but not in the other. The authors believe that this asymmetry affects the selectivity of the channel, which is the ability to allow one type of ion to flow through it while blocking others. Their findings could help us understand why these channels behave the way they do, and how we can treat diseases caused by their dysfunction.
Rabies is a disease caused by a virus that affects the central nervous system. It is a rare but serious disease that can cause both furious and paralytic symptoms in humans and dogs. The furious form is characterized by aggressive behavior, while the paralytic form leads to weakness and paralysis. Recent studies have found differences in the way the virus spreads in the brain between the two forms of the disease. In the furious form, the virus has been found to spread more quickly and widely in the brain than in the paralytic form. This may help explain why the paralytic form causes weakness and paralysis, while the furious form causes aggression.
Insulator elements in the genome are important for organising the expression of specific genes, and they do so by preventing interactions between certain parts of the genome. These interactions are thought to occur through the formation of loops that create separate regulatory domains within the genome. CTCF is a protein that has been linked to insulator elements and is known to bind to specific DNA sequences. In this study, the authors use ChIP-array technology to analyze the binding of CTCF to the genome in fruit flies and identify specific binding sites. They find that CTCF binds to certain regions of the genome in a highly specific pattern and that these binding sites are similar to other known CTCF binding sites. These results provide new insights into how CTCF is involved in the regulation of gene expression.
Proteins change shape when they bind a specific molecule (ligand) in order to function properly. This shape-changing process is a fundamental aspect of molecular biochemistry, but it has been difficult to understand how it happens because it happens so quickly and is hard to observe directly. Researchers have used different models to explain how this process works, but they have not been sure which one is correct. Recently, scientists have been able to observe the process directly using technology like X-ray crystallography and kinetic analysis. They have found that some enzymes change shape slowly when they bind their ligand, which mimics the way substrates change shape when they are being processed by the enzyme. This slow shape-changing process is called induced fit, and it is different from other ways of explaining the process. Scientists have also been able to trap different shapes of the enzyme as it changes shape, providing more evidence for the induced fit model and helping us understand how enzymes work.
This article describes the function of the thalamus, a brain structure that receives sensory information from the retina and relays it to the cerebral cortex. It explains how the thalamus receives a massive corticofugal feedback and how this feedback influences the transfer of sensory information by thalamocortical (TC) neurons. The article also explains how the thalamus can be modulated by the cortical feedback to control the global gain and filtering features of the sensory thalamic relays. It discusses different hypotheses about the function of the thalamic feedback, including enhancing selectivity to attended sensory features, acting as an "active blackboard," and changing the receptive field of TC neurons. The article proposes a new approach to studying the sensory transfer gating mechanisms in the thalamus by exploring the functional impact of higher order interactions between TC neurons.
The process of meiosis results in the formation of haploid gametes that are used to create a new organism. Errors during meiosis can lead to the development of aneuploidy, which is a condition where a person has an abnormal number of chromosomes. Aneuploidy is detected in a significant portion of human pregnancies and is the leading cause of developmental and intellectual disabilities. 6mA is a new DNA modification that has been found in metazoans, and NMAD-1 is a demethylase that removes 6mA from DNA in C. elegans. Previous studies have shown that NMAD-1 is important for fertility in C. elegans, but how this is achieved is unknown. In this study, the researchers wanted to investigate how NMAD-1 affects fertility in C. elegans.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a common virus that usually causes mild symptoms in healthy people. However, it can be very dangerous for people with weakened immune systems. It is the leading cause of birth defects in babies born to women who contracted the virus while pregnant. HCMV is a very complex virus that is surrounded by a thick protective layer, and it is able to infect many different types of human cells. To infect human cells, HCMV uses a number of different proteins. One important protein is called gH/gL/gO, which helps the virus attach to cells. Another important protein is called gB, which helps the virus fuse with the cells. HCMV can enter different cells in different ways. In some cells, it can fuse directly with the plasma membrane, while in other cells, it can enter through endocytosis. Scientists have found a protein called APMAP that is important for HCMV infection. APMAP helps the virus attach to cells and also helps it fuse with the cells. APMAP is also important for the virus to enter the nucleus of the cells. In this study, the researchers used a virus that did not have the APMAP protein and compared it to the normal virus. They found that the virus without APMAP was less able to enter cells and cause infection. They also found that APMAP was important for the virus to enter the nucleus of the cells. The researchers used biochemical assays to show that APMAP interacts with the virus at low pH and also helps the virus enter the nucleus of the cells.
The current research focuses on stem cells, which have the ability to renew themselves and differentiate into specialized cells. The hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) is a popular model system for studying this process, as it produces all types of blood cells. The researchers present a mathematical model that integrates the regulation of cytokines and transcription factors during stem cell differentiation. They propose that the strength of cross-antagonism between lineage-specific factors is a critical determinant in the achievement of multistability, which allows for the maintenance of the uncommitted state. The model suggests that noise in the system can enable stochastic switching between stable states, but external cues can bias the distribution of the uncommitted population. The researchers believe that their modeling framework can help elucidate new mechanisms that underlie cell-fate decisions in hematopoiesis.
Bunyaviruses are a large group of viruses that can infect animals and humans. These viruses have RNA genomes and are spread by arthropods such as mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas. The Orthobunyavirus genus is a group of bunyaviruses that cause many human diseases. Some of the viruses in this genus are Oropouche virus, La Crosse virus, and Schmallenberg virus. These viruses can cause severe fevers, encephalitis, and meningitis in humans and animals. These viruses do not have any known treatment or prevention methods. Bunyamwera virus is a mosquito-borne pathogen that was first isolated in Uganda in 1943 and is considered the prototypical representative of the Orthobunyavirus genus. Scientists have studied the structure of Bunyamwera virus using electron microscopy. They found that the virus particles are roughly spherical, with glycoprotein spikes protruding from the virion membrane. The spikes form locally ordered lattices and become disordered in an acidic environment. Scientists also generated a three-dimensional model of the glycoprotein spike in the prefusion state to 3.0-nm resolution. They found that the spike forms a distinctive tripod-like structure.
Primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) is a common cause of blindness, particularly in Asian countries such as China and India. It is a complex disease, and it is unclear what genes are responsible for causing it. To find out, we conducted a study using a genome-wide association study (GWAS) approach on PACG with 3,771 cases and 18,551 controls. We identified three genetic variants that may contribute to the risk of PACG: rs11024102 in PLEKHA7, rs3753841 in COL11A1 and rs1015213 located between PCMTD1 and ST18 on Chromosome 8q. However, these three genetic variants only explained less than 2% of PACG risk. We then looked into other methods besides GWAS to identify more genes associated with PACG susceptibility. We used quantitative phenotypes, such as shallower anterior chamber depth (ACD), which is a hallmark of PACG and a normally distributed trait within the general population. ACD displays high heritability with a coefficient as high as 0.90, and it can be considered an endophenotype for PACG. We conducted a two-staged study: a genome-wide association study on a total of 4,484 population-based individuals of Indian and Malay ethnicity from Singapore and Chinese from Beijing, China. We then assessed the identified QTLs for ACD in PACG case cohorts to determine if these genes affect PACG risk.
The bilaterian tree is a group of organisms that can be divided into two main groups, deuterostomes (such as humans) and protostomes (such as flies). In both groups, the process of gastrulation occurs during early embryo development, which results in the formation of three germ layers. These germ layers are patterned along two different axes. To control the expression of genes involved in this process, special regions of the genome called cis-regulatory elements are used. These elements are regions of the genome where certain proteins called transcription factors bind to help control the expression of a target gene. These cis-regulatory elements are often very highly conserved between closely related species, but it has been difficult to find examples of cis-regulatory elements that are conserved between deuterostomes and protostomes. Here we present the first examples of such elements, which have been found to be conserved in both their sequence and their location within the genome. These cis-regulatory elements contain specific binding sites for different transcription factors, and we show that they function as enhancers of gene expression.
The current influenza vaccines are not always effective, and many individuals who get vaccinated still get sick with the flu. The reason for this is that influenza viruses are constantly changing, or evolving, and the vaccines are only effective against the strains of influenza that are included in them. These changes happen because of the low replication fidelity of the virus, meaning that when the virus replicates it makes mistakes. These mistakes can result in small changes to the genetic structure of the virus. This can also happen while the virus is replicating inside of a person. The changes that occur in a person's body can be passed down to other people, resulting in new strains of influenza that are different from the ones that were in the vaccine. It is not clear how the immune response to the vaccine affects the evolution of influenza viruses inside of a person. In this study, the authors used genetic sequencing to analyze the evolution of influenza viruses inside of people who received the influenza vaccine. They found that the genetic structure of the influenza viruses inside of people who received the vaccine was different from the influenza viruses inside of people who did not receive the vaccine. The authors also found that the immune response to the vaccine did not always lead to the evolution of new strains of influenza that were different from the ones that were in the vaccine. Instead, the immune response to the vaccine often resulted in the evolution of new strains of influenza that were similar to the ones that were in the vaccine. Overall, this study shows that the immune response to the influenza vaccine can impact the evolution of influenza viruses inside of people, but it is not always clear how.
This study compared the immune response to the Leishmaniasis parasite, L. donovani, in young (2 months old) and older (18 months old) mice. The authors found that the immune response in young mice was more effective in fighting off the infection. However, older mice had a weaker immune response and were less effective in fighting off the infection. The study suggests that vaccination may be a practical alternative for preventing leishmaniasis, but more research is needed to understand the immune response in older individuals.
In this research study, scientists created viruses called chimeras by swapping the capsid proteins between two viruses that were from the same species but had different characteristics. They chose to use a respiratory virus called EV-D68 and an enteric virus called EV-D94. The scientists wanted to understand what made these viruses different and how these differences impacted the virus. They looked at how acid sensitive the virus was, how well it grew at different temperatures, what tissues it could infect, and how it interacted with the immune system. The scientists found that the chimeras were viable and had characteristics of both viruses. They also found that the capsid proteins played a significant role in determining the characteristics of the virus. This research provides insight into the genetic determinants of the diversity of EV virulence and may help guide the search for antiviral treatments.
This paper is about how a virus called Pseudorabies virus (PrV) can use a protein called gE-gI to take antibodies that a person has made against PrV and put them inside the cells of the body. The antibodies are then broken down, which helps the PrV to avoid being killed by the immune system.
Cystic hydatid disease (CHD) is a serious parasitic infection caused by the larval stages of Echinococcus granulosus, a cestode that threatens public health and causes significant economic losses. More than 3 million people are infected with this parasite, and it is difficult to control because appropriate diagnostic procedures are lacking and available drugs are inefficient. E. granulosus has a complex developmental cycle, involving eggs, oncospheres, protoscoleces, and adult stages. Parasites live in the small intestine of dogs and produce numerous eggs that are excreted in their feces. Hydatid cysts, the larval stage of E. granulosus, develop in the internal organs of intermediate hosts, primarily in the liver and lungs. The larval stages of E. granulosus are comprised of two layers of cyst wall: cyst fluid and protoscoleces. As the only infectious form of the larval stages, protoscoleces can interact with both definitive and intermediate hosts. They can also differentiate into new cysts when released into the body cavity of intermediate hosts upon cyst rupture. Mouse models of CHD are often established via the intraperitoneal inoculation with protoscoleces, a method that has been widely applied to drug screening and vaccine development. Understanding the elaborate immune evasion strategies and mechanisms of physiological adaptation of the protoscoleces is critical to ascertain effective intervention targets to control the prevalence of the parasite. In this study, we focus on the role of excretory-secretory products (ESPs) that are released by protoscoleces, as these compounds are exposed directly to the immune system of the hosts and engaged at the host-parasite interface. We used Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis to explore the transcriptome profiles of E. granulosus protoscoleces and to elucidate the potential functions of the ESPs released by the parasite. Our findings suggest that protoscoleces can modulate the host immune response by downregulating host immune responses, impairing DC function, and inducing the generation of CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ T cells. We also identified several intracellular proteins that were not previously thought to be exposed to the immune system of hosts in the ESPs of protoscoleces, suggesting that parasite-derived ESPs are incorporated into the metabolites of the host. Our study provides valuable insights into the mechanisms of physiological adaptation of protoscoleces to their hosts, which can help researchers develop new targets for the treatment and prevention of CHD.
The paper is about a protein called NirA, which helps fungi convert nitrate into ammonium. This protein is important for plants, algae, and other nitrate-assimilating eukaryotes, and helps them grow and develop. In this study, the researchers wanted to understand how NirA is regulated and how it works in the cell. To do this, they used a type of fungi called Aspergillus nidulans, which is a type of mold commonly found in the environment. The researchers found that NirA has a specific sequence of amino acids that help it move between the cytosol and the nucleus. They also found that nitrate helps to activate NirA by causing it to accumulate in the nucleus and bind to specific DNA sequences, which activates the genes that help the fungi use nitrate.
This study investigates why there are multiple genes encoding sodium channels in humans and how their different properties are constrained to allow action potentials to propagate. The study finds that different sodium channels have different activation and inactivation curves, which are directly related to their excitability properties. These properties distinguish the sodium channels into four groups, each of which is specialized for different functions. Two groups are associated with nerve and muscle tissues, respectively. The other two groups have unique properties that allow them to perform specialized tasks.
In this study, researchers have determined the crystal structures of the influenza virus endonuclease, an enzyme responsible for transcription through cap-snatching, in complex with various divalent metal ions and inhibitors. The researchers used constructs derived from the influenza A/California/04/2009 strain to crystallize complexes of the endonuclease with MnCl2, MgCl2, MgSO4, CaCl2, and several 4-substituted 2,4-dioxobutanoic acid inhibitors. They found that binding of metal ions and inhibitors to the enzyme increased the conformational flexibility of the active site, but that the enzyme remained functionally active in cap-snatching transcription. The results of this study provide detailed structural information on the interactions between the influenza virus endonuclease and divalent metal ions and inhibitors, which can aid in the design of new and more effective anti-influenza drugs.
Snake envenomation is a serious health problem in many tropical countries with an estimated 1.8 million people affected worldwide, resulting in approximately 94,000 fatalities annually. Antivenoms are the only effective treatment for snake envenomation. However, the production of antivenoms is challenging due to the limited number of responders to immunization and the low potency of the resulting antisera. To address these challenges, a 'low dose low volume, multi-site' immunization protocol was developed that involves injecting a low dose of the venom at many sites covering a wide anatomical area of the neck. This protocol has been shown to significantly increase the number of responder horses and the potency of the resulting antisera. The authors applied this protocol to produce potent polyspecific antisera against three medically important vipers of Thailand and its neighboring countries. The antisera were found to be effective against the three vipers, and the protocol yielded high responder rates and potent antisera.
Salmonella enterica is a type of bacteria that causes various diseases in humans and animals. It is a facultative intracellular pathogen that infects the gut and can spread to other parts of the body. The bacteria use a special system to enter the gut cells and spread to other parts of the body. Once inside the body, the bacteria have evolved to survive and multiply inside host cells, which helps them to avoid the host immune response. Some proteins produced by the bacteria have also evolved to inhibit the immune response and allow the bacteria to survive and spread. The bacteria can establish a long-term infection and spread to other animals. To study how the bacteria establish and maintain this infection, researchers have used a model of long-term chronic Salmonella infection in mice. In this model, the bacteria are not deadly to the host, but they can be recovered from the spleen up to one year after infection. Researchers have used a microarray-based screen to identify the genes that are required for the bacteria to establish and maintain this long-term infection. They found that one of these genes, sseI, plays a role in long-term infection. The protein produced by this gene, SseI, is translocated into the host cell by the bacteria. The protein binds to a host factor called IQGAP1, which regulates the cytoskeleton and cell migration. The binding of SseI to IQGAP1 causes the host cells to migrate more slowly, which allows the bacteria to spread and establish a long-term infection. The researchers also found that Salmonella reduces the migration of DCs and CD4+ T cells in vivo, which suggests that this mechanism could be important for the bacteria to evade the host immune response. Overall, this research shows that the bacteria use a novel mechanism to establish and maintain a long-term infection.
CA-MRSA, a type of MRSA that causes severe infections, has a high virulence that is thought to be due to the toxins it produces. The amount of toxins produced by CA-MRSA is thought to be regulated by a genetic element called agr. We previously found that another genetic element, called psm-mec, regulates the virulence of S. aureus by decreasing the amount of PSMα produced. However, we did not know how psm-mec regulates virulence. In this study, we screened for and identified a target molecule of psm-mec RNA, which is a regulatory RNA that decreases PSMα production. We also did an epidemiologic study and a deletion analysis of psm-mec to confirm whether psm-mec mutation increases virulence. Our findings suggest that psm-mec mutation is a genetic determinant of the high virulence of CA-MRSA.
Dengue is a serious and widespread disease caused by a virus called Dengue virus (DENV). It is transmitted to humans by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. DENV has four different types (DENV1-4) that can cause different symptoms, from mild febrile illness to severe dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome (DHF/DSS). Some people who have had one type of DENV and recovered from it are at a higher risk of developing DHF/DSS when they get infected with a different type of DENV. This is called antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of infection.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum and is transmitted to humans by the bite of sandfly bites. The main vector species in the New World is Lu. longipalpis, but transmission can also occur through Lu. cruzi and Lu. evansi. The disease can manifest with a range of symptoms, from asymptomatic to severe visceral involvement. The diagnosis of VL can be made using delayed hypersensitivity tests, parasitological, serological, and molecular methods. In Brazil, where 90% of cases occur in the Americas, the recommended control actions against VL are insecticide use, dog culling, and human case management. However, these measures have not been effective in reducing incidence or fatality rates. A systematic review of studies that investigated risk factors for VL in South Asia found consistent patterns for some variables, such as spatial clustering of cases, conditions of households, areas of vegetation near homes, and poverty. However, these results cannot be extrapolated to other contexts, such as the Americas, where the disease has different characteristics. This study aims to provide a summary of observational studies that investigated factors associated with infection by L. infantum in humans in the Americas. The quality of publications and gaps in existing knowledge will also be analyzed.
Francisella tularensis is a highly contagious bacterium that can cause tularemia in humans. The bacterium can be found in water, soil, and infected animals such as rabbits and squirrels. There are two main types of Ft: Type A and Type B. Type A is highly virulent, while Type B is not. When a person comes into contact with Ft Type A, it can cause acute pulmonary tularemia, which can be fatal. Ft evades the host's immune system by subverting bacterial recognition and escaping from phagolysosomes. Ft initially replicates without triggering inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα, IL-1β, and IL-6. Later on, however, Ft elicits an anti-inflammatory lung milieu, which may contribute to the severity of the disease. Unfettered Ft replication results in overwhelming bacterial burden that accounts for acute death in SchuS4 infection. Inflammatory cytokines manifest in the lungs later, but are too late to prevent death. Multiple cytokines and HMGB-1 elaborated in later days suggest bacterial sepsis-associated death. Despite delayed cytokine responses, Ft elicits acute lung infiltration by neutrophils and macrophages. Neutrophils are important in controlling Ft, but their pathogenic role and mechanism of failure to control Ft are not clear. MDSC are a heterogeneous population of mature and immature myeloid cells with the capacity to inhibit innate and adaptive immunity. MDSC expand in spleen/LN or infection target organs during acute infections. Ft induces medullary and extra-medullary myelopoiesis contributing to infiltration of lungs by immature myeloid cells (IMC) and mature myeloid cells that are phenotypically and functionally similar to MDSC. IMC/MDSC contribute to the immunosuppressive nature of pulmonary tularemia and their depletion partially ameliorates mortality following LVS infection. However, the death of infiltrating myeloid cells is temporally associated with necrotic tissue damage and host death. In contrast, adoptive transfer of Ly6G+ and Ly6C+ IMC/MDSC enhances mice mortality following Ft LVS infection. In contrast, preferential recruitment of mature phagocytes protects against lethal SchuS4 infection.
The article discusses the concept of "successful biological invasion" and the factors that contribute to it, such as life history traits, ecological and environmental constraints, and the intensity of propagule pressure. It also describes the spread of the Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus, which has become an invasive species around the world due to human activities. The article discusses the genetic and genomic studies that have been conducted on this mosquito species and provides information on its ability to adapt to different climates and environments. Additionally, the article highlights the public health implications of the rapid global spread of this mosquito species, which has been involved in the transmission of arboviruses such as chikungunya, dengue, and Zika. The article concludes by emphasizing the importance of understanding the demographic history of this mosquito species to predict the risk of vector outbreaks.
Bacterial infections can range from being deadly to causing long-lasting, non-invasive infections that can last for years. Some bacteria, like Pseudomonas aeruginosa, can cause both types of infections depending on the host and the environment. A new model suggests that chronic infections may occur in two stages. Early on, virulence factors that help the bacteria establish an infection may be active. Once the infection is established, virulence factors may not be as important, and biofilm formation may be triggered. However, it is not clear if these factors are really important for chronic infections and how they work. To better understand the process, researchers studied human wound infection isolates and Pseudomonas aeruginosa in mice with chronic wounds. They also tried to simulate the wound environment in the lab to see how the bacteria behaved in these conditions. They found that certain virulence factors were not important for survival in chronic wounds, and that biofilm formation was often not important in human wound infections. However, the researchers suggest that more work needs to be done to understand the complex interactions between bacteria and the host during wound infections.
Bancroftian filariasis is a parasitic disease that affects 100 million people worldwide. It is caused by a parasitic worm and can cause various genital problems in men, such as testicular hydrocele or elephantiasis of the scrotum. Hydrocele is the most common genital manifestation of this disease. However, few studies have looked at the prevalence of hydrocele in temperate climates. It appears that hydrocele is less frequent in temperate countries than in tropical and subtropical ones. In the tropics, up to 40% of adult males may have testicular hydrocele. The mechanism behind the abnormal accumulation of fluid in the vaginal cavity, or acquired hydrocele, is thought to be an imbalance between the secretory and absorptive functions of the tunica vaginalis layers. Standard treatment for hydrocele involves surgery, which aims to expose the secretory surface of the tunica vaginalis to the absorptive surface of the scrotal wall. In a bancroftian filariasis endemic area, the prevalence of acquired hydrocele in adult males is high, and the most common surgical technique involves opening and everting the hydrocele sac, then suturing it behind the testis. This study aims to evaluate the occurrence of lymphangiectasia in scrotal contents, the morphology and consistency of the testicles, and hydrocele recurrence in men who have undergone complete excision of the tunica vaginalis.
Trichinella spiralis is a parasite that infects animals and humans and causes trichinellosis, a serious disease. The parasite infects animals and humans and causes trichinellosis, a serious disease. The parasite has several stages of development, including an L1 larvae stage. The L1 larvae are ingested from contaminated meat and released from infected muscle tissue after digestion. The parasite then causes symptoms similar to other intestinal infections, leading to myalgia, vasculitis, myocarditis, and encephalitis, occasionally leading to death. To survive, the parasite invades fully differentiated skeletal myofibres, where it modifies the host cell's phenotype by causing de-differentiation, cell cycle arrest, and the formation of a surrounding collagen capsule. The disruption of host cell signaling during this process is mediated by the parasite's surface proteins and proteins secreted from the parasite secretory organelle. The ubiquitin pathway is necessary throughout all stages of eukaryotic cell development. In this study, researchers used activity-based probes to identify deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in T. spiralis worm extract of L1 larvae collected from nurse cell complexes. They identified and cloned the predicted gene encoding TsUCH37, the putative UCH-L5 homologue. They found evidence that the association of this protein with the proteasome has been conserved throughout evolution. They showed that recombinant TsUCH37 activity can be specifically inhibited by a UCH inhibitor, LDN-57444. They found that the same drug caused a reduction in viability of parasites in culture. This family of enzymes in T. spiralis may be important for the survival of the parasite, and similar inhibitory compounds may provide useful tools for further investigating the role of the Ub/proteasome system in T. spiralis infection.
Chagas disease is a public health problem in Latin America, but it is also becoming more prevalent outside of Latin America due to increased migration. Chagas disease is caused by the parasite T. cruzi, which is transmitted by blood-sucking bugs. Current treatment for Chagas disease is limited and often has side effects. A validated target for treatment of Chagas disease is the enzyme cruzipain, which is a cysteine protease expressed by T. cruzi. The compound K777 has shown oral activity in animal disease models of Chagas disease, and a related compound, 3, has shown promising anti-trypanosomal activity. In this study, we evaluated the anti-trypanosomal activity of odanacatib (4) and two of its analogues, as well as the anti-trypanosomal activity of cathepsin K inhibitors based on a cyclohexane dicarboxamide scaffold. We observed that the anti-trypanosomal activity of two of the compounds was significantly greater than what would be expected based on their cruzain inhibitory activity, demonstrating that they are not causing non-specific cytotoxicity.
Cereals, such as rice, maize, and wheat, are the primary food sources for humans and farm animals. These crops have a common ancestor that existed about 50 million years ago and their genetic map organization is highly conserved. Rice was the first cereal to have its genome completely sequenced and now serves as a reference sequence for genomic research across the cereals. The 2.3 billion base-pair (bp) maize genome is currently being sequenced using a clone-by-clone strategy. Although maize behaves genetically as a simple diploid, its genome is quite complex, with two sets of chromosomes. This work suggests that maize may have arisen by allotetraploidy, meaning that it was formed by the hybridization of two slightly diverged progenitors rather than the duplication of a single progenitor. The two progenitors of maize may have diverged from a common ancestor about 12 million years ago and hybridized as recently as 4.8 million years ago, explaining the duplicated regions in maize. Sequence analysis shows that about two-thirds of the maize genome consists of transposable elements, with 95% of those being retrotransposons. The maize genome is extremely challenging to sequence because of its genome size, reduplication, and high repetitive DNA content. The physical map presented here was constructed using a combination of deep-coverage large insert BAC libraries, agarose and high information content fingerprint datasets, genetic marker datasets, and sequence-based marker datasets. Alignment of the maize and rice genomes reveals new information about the organization of the chromosomes of the progenitors contributing to the maize polyploidization and the subsequent diploidization of the maize genome. The physical map also helps to infer the sizes and locations of homoeologous regions, together with spatial patterns of genome size evolution. This provides a foundation for comparing maize to sorghum and dissecting the consequences for these genomes of an ancient duplication common to all cereals.
Prions are a group of brain disorders, including CJD in humans and scrapie in sheep, that are caused by the misfolding of a protein called PrP. Recent studies have shown that PrPSc, a misfolded form of PrP, can be generated in vitro by inducing PrP to misfold using ultrasound waves. In this study, the authors aimed to determine the conditions that would allow for the de novo generation of PrP and infectivity using PMCA (Protein Misfolding Cyclic Amplification) in brain homogenates. The authors hypothesized that if sporadic prion disease originates from a low frequency process of spontaneous PrPC misfolding, they should be able to pick up and propagate this event using PMCA. However, in thousands of PMCA experiments, the authors have only rarely seen PrPSc formation in control samples without infectious material, and in these extremely uncommon cases, they could not rule out the possibility of cross-contamination.
The article explains that honeybees use angular velocity (AV) to control their flight. They can estimate this AV over a wide range of perceived degrees per second without using spatial frequency of the stimulus. The article also explains that there are retinotopic motion detectors in the honeybee brain that respond to temporal frequency, and a subpopulation of descending neurons that show a response consistent with the summed output of the retinotopic array. These detectors only respond up to temporal frequencies of 10-100 Hz, far lower than those experienced in flight control. Therefore, there must be additional neural circuitry capable of calculating an estimation for AV. The article suggests a model for the AV response in the honeybee, based on an extension of the optomotor pathway, allowing different detectors to be constructed by drawing selectively from a pool of elementary motion detectors with varying response timescales and calculating the desired final response by combining the selected responses. The article uses the architecture of the elementary motion detectors found in Drosophila, but with a simpler neuron model. The model integrates the currently understood biology of the bee AV estimation circuit and is validated by comparing its performance in a simulated environment against data taken from experiments conducted in the field with real bees.
Human African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness, is a disease caused by a type of parasite called a trypanosome and transmitted by tsetse flies. The parasite that causes sleeping sickness is called Trypanosoma brucei, which has two sub-species: Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense. Most cases of sleeping sickness are caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense.   In the early stages of sleeping sickness, the parasites are found in the blood, but as the disease progresses, the parasites move to the brain, causing neurological disorders. If not treated, sleeping sickness can be fatal.   Researchers studied 53 people who had been diagnosed with sleeping sickness in the Ivory Coast in 1995-1996 but refused treatment. These people were re-examined over a period of several years, and researchers found that some of them had not developed any symptoms of the disease and had cleared the parasite from their blood. However, these individuals still tested positive for the disease in a lab test that detects antibodies against the parasite.   The researchers also studied other people who had been diagnosed with sleeping sickness in the Ivory Coast and Tanzania between 2000 and 2007 but had not yet been treated. Some of these people had also not developed any symptoms of the disease and had cleared the parasite from their blood. However, they still tested positive for the disease in the lab test that detects antibodies against the parasite.   Overall, the researchers found that two alternative natural progressions of sleeping sickness exist. In one progression, the parasites clear from the blood but persist in the lymph nodes. In the other progression, the parasites clear from both the blood and the lymph nodes. In both progressions, the individuals still tested positive for the disease in the lab test that detects antibodies against the parasite, but they did not develop any symptoms of the disease.
The exposure to ionizing radiation (such as X-rays) is known to cause cancer in humans and mice. The reason behind this is not entirely clear, but some scientists think it's because radiation increases the chances that certain oncogenic mutations will occur. A mutagen is something that causes mutations in cells. These mutations can be harmful or helpful. Some mutations help cells to survive when they are damaged, but they can also make those cells more likely to become cancer. In this study, researchers looked at what happens when radiation is given to mice with some of their genes removed. They found that the radiation helped the mice with missing genes to survive better, even though they were more likely to become cancer. This study shows that radiation can help some types of cancer to grow, which could make it harder to treat them.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic infection that affects millions of people worldwide. It is caused by a type of worm that lives in the blood vessels of the host for several years. The worms are able to regulate the immune system of the host, which can reduce inflammation in certain conditions. This study aims to better understand a protein from the worm called SmKI-1, which may have anti-inflammatory properties. The study shows that SmKI-1 is important for the survival of the worms in both lab and in the host. It also shows that SmKI-1 can reduce inflammation in several different types of inflammatory conditions, including liver inflammation, arthritis, and pleural inflammation. Additionally, the study suggests that SmKI-1 can bind to a protein called elastase, which is important for neutrophil migration and function. This could explain how SmKI-1 reduces inflammation. Overall, this study highlights the potential of SmKI-1 as a therapeutic target for the treatment of inflammatory conditions.
Membrane proteins are important for many important functions in cells but are also linked to many diseases. They are difficult to study because it is hard to get high-resolution pictures of them. Therefore, predicting their structures is a useful approach to understand them better. However, most of the methods used to predict their structures do not work well. This study presents a new method that can generate models of membrane proteins with good accuracy. The method was tested in several studies and seems to work well for designing new proteins.
Listeria monocytogenes is a type of bacteria that can invade and survive inside human cells. It causes invasive listeriosis, which can lead to severe illnesses and sometimes death. However, it is rare and mostly affects people with weakened immune systems. It is thought that humans become infected after eating food contaminated with the bacteria. Some studies have suggested that people may carry the bacteria without getting sick. To better understand how L. monocytogenes survives inside human cells, researchers have been studying it in mice. However, the results from mice may not accurately represent what happens in humans. To better model what happens in humans, researchers have been using human cells grown in a lab to study how L. monocytogenes survives and behaves. They found that in human hepatocytes and trophoblast cells, bacteria stop moving and are enclosed in large vacuoles after a certain period of time. This may be a way for the bacteria to survive and avoid detection by the host's immune system. The bacteria also seemed to change their behavior and expression of certain proteins during long-term infections. This finding may help researchers understand how L. monocytogenes survives in human cells and potentially how it causes disease.
In psychoacoustics, "streaming" refers to the ability of listeners to perceive a complex auditory scene as individual sounds or objects. A common stimulus used to study streaming involves alternating tone sequences, such as repeating ABA-triplets. The sequence can be perceived as integrated into one sound, or segregated into two sounds. The parameters that influence streaming include the difference in frequency between the A and B tones (Δf) and the presentation rate (PR). Researchers have studied the phenomenon of streaming and its various interpretations (integrated or segregated) using models of the brain. These models aim to reproduce the dynamics of the alternations after the first perceptual switch (i.e. after the build-up phase). The neuromechanistic model developed in this study focuses on accurately reproducing the dynamics of these alternations, which are important for understanding how the brain processes auditory information over long periods of time. The model draws on physiological studies of auditory streaming and general models of perceptual bistability, and incorporates the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses and recurrent NMDA-like excitation. The model is tested using experimental data and model predictions are compared to the data to evaluate the model's effectiveness in capturing the dynamics of streaming.
Schistosoma (a type of parasite) can induce a strong immune response in its host, characterized by a high level of a specific type of antibody called IgE. This response is believed to protect against parasites, but research has recently challenged this belief. Scientists have identified a group of antigens related to infection status in people living in endemic areas. However, the basis for acquiring immunity is still unknown. Strategies for vaccine development have changed as genomic data for schistosomes became available. One promising vaccine candidate, SmTSP-2, achieved 57% and 64% reduction of adult worms and eggs, respectively, in animal models. However, this vaccine candidate did not induce IgE in serum of people with natural immunity. Recently, researchers tested specific IgE levels for several vaccine candidates in people living in endemic areas. They found that those who displayed urticarial reactions had high levels of IgE against the vaccine candidate. This led to testing specific IgE levels for other vaccine candidates, such as Necator americanus GST1 and APR1. They found that people living in endemic areas had high levels of IgE against these vaccine candidates. To study the allergenicity of a protein, researchers used a humanized rat basophilic leukaemia cell line (RS-ATL8) and a cell-free expression system. They found that the RS-ATL8 cell line could detect at least 1 fg/mL of egg white extract proteins. This sensitivity allows researchers to study the allergenicity of a protein using only minute amounts of protein. They used a cell-free expression system to produce correctly folded antigens of interest in short time. This technology paves the way for genome-wide assessment of the Schistosoma allergome.
The article discusses the concept of hybrid dysgenesis, which refers to a syndrome of sterility and genetic damage that occurs in intraspecific crosses when the male carries one or more transposable elements (TEs) absent in the female. This phenomenon provides insight into the role that divergence in TE profile can play in determining TE activity across generations. The study focuses on a particular case of hybrid dysgenesis in the Drosophila virilis species. The authors show that the system of hybrid dysgenesis in this species is caused by the mass action of multiple active elements abundant in one strain, but not another. They also demonstrate that increased and persistent TE expression in the germline of females of the dysgenic cross coincides with a shift in piRNA pools and that this shift is associated with increased abundance of piRNAs that target genes outside of piRNA clusters, leading to significant effects on non-TE gene expression. Finally, the authors highlight that differences in the TE profile between strains coincide with different modes of trans-generational gene regulation by genic piRNAs that arise from polymorphic TE insertions. Overall, this work highlights the complex and multi-layered nature of hybrid dysgenesis and provides insight into the mechanisms by which divergence in TE profile can influence patterns of TE and gene expression across generations.
Fragile X tremor ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a recently discovered disorder that affects people over the age of 50, and is more common in men than women. Affected individuals slowly develop gait ataxia, tremors, dementia, parkinsonism, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. The disorder is caused by a pathological expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 5′UTR of the FMR1 gene, which leads to reduced levels of the FMR1 protein. While it is still not clear exactly what causes the disorder, evidence suggests that the expanded CGG repeat-containing mRNA may bind to and sequester important proteins within nuclear inclusions, preventing them from performing their normal functions. This suggests that a mechanism is responsible for altering the levels of FMR1 mRNA, and this study aims to determine this mechanism. The results of this study suggest that the expanded CGG repeat itself may alter local chromatin structure at the FMR1 locus, leading to increased transcription in cis. This transcriptional augmentation may be pharmacologically modifiable.
Chronic viral infections such as HIV and hepatitis C affect millions of people worldwide. During these infections, the viruses are able to evade the host immune system and establish a persistent infection. Research has shown that certain genetic factors can influence the host immune response and affect the severity of the infection. For example, certain HLA class I alleles are associated with enhanced CD8 T cell responses and reduced viral loads during HIV infection. In some cases, the constant stimulation of CD8 T cells during chronic infection can drive them into a state of exhaustion, which can prevent effective clearance of the infection. This is believed to occur in order to limit immunopathology to the host. CD4 T cells also play a critical role during the development of chronic viral infections and can be altered by the presence of persistent antigen.
Anthrax is a serious infectious disease that can affect both animals and humans. It is caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. The disease is enzootic in many parts of the world, with outbreaks in China reported frequently. Anthrax is considered a global public health threat due to its potential use for bioterrorism and its wide distribution. Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis and multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis (MLVA) are the most effective methods for genotyping B. anthracis. In this study, strains of B. anthracis collected from northwestern China from 1990 to 2016 were investigated, and the genetic relationships among the strains were analyzed with the canSNP and MLVA methods.
Escherichia coli is a type of bacteria that can cause diarrhea in humans. It is found in food and water. There are two types of E. coli that can cause diarrhea, enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC). They infect intestinal cells using a special tool called a Type III secretion system. When these bacteria infect intestinal cells, they make the cells release a type of protein called RELM-beta, which attracts immune cells to the infected area. This helps the body fight the bacteria. A protein called SIGIRR that helps the body fight bacteria can also cause problems if it is not working properly. SIGIRR helps the body avoid getting too many immune cells in the infected area, but it also helps keep good bacteria in the intestines. If SIGIRR is not working properly, the body cannot fight the bacteria well and the good bacteria in the intestines may disappear. The protein Muc2, which is made by intestinal cells and helps protect the intestines, can also help protect against infections.
The Norovirus genus of viruses in the Caliciviridae family causes gastroenteritis in humans and is a serious health threat worldwide. They infect a variety of animals including mice. Caliciviruses have evolved a unique mechanism for translation initiation, which is a critical step in replication following the delivery of the viral RNA to the cytoplasm of infected cells. This mechanism involves a complex process in which the 43 S ribosomal initiation complex is recruited to the AUG start codon by an interaction between the heterotrimeric eukaryotic initiation factor 4F (eIF4F) and the m7G cap at the 5'-end of the mRNA. This process is critical for normal protein synthesis and is circumvented by viruses to gain an advantage over host cell mRNA in competing for ribosome recruitment. Caliciviruses and picornaviruses (e.g., poliovirus, rhinovirus, and foot-and-mouth disease virus) have evolved different mechanisms for translation initiation. Picornaviruses use an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) to gain an advantage over host cell mRNA in competing for ribosome recruitment, while caliciviruses use a viral protein called VPg (Viral Protein, genome-linked) to interact directly with eukaryotic initiation factors (eIF4G and eIF4E) for translation initiation. Recent work has revealed that VPg proteins from different caliciviruses may operate in different ways and that the VPg of FCV (feline calicivirus) probably operates as a functional analogue of the m7G cap, by interacting directly with eIF4E. The translation initiation directed by MNV VPg may not be completely independent of eIF4E in view of a recent study showing that modulation of the MAPK pathway to stimulate phosphorylation of eIF4E during MNV1 infection helps to promote virus replication. The interaction of MNV VPg with eIF4G has been recently described and in this study, the authors have characterized the interaction in detail using a combination of qualitative and quantitative binding assays and NMR analyses to map precisely the particular regions of MNV VPg and eIF4G that mediate binding. They have discovered a C-terminal sequence motif in MNV VPg that is conserved in all noroviruses and is capable of recapitulating the interactions made by MNV VPg with the translation initiation machinery in living cells. They have also found that this VPg peptide motif binds to the HEAT-1 domains of eIF4GI and eIF4GII with micromolar affinity. Their evidence suggests that this VPg peptide motif may adopt a helical conformation when bound to eIF4G and can mediate the formation of a ternary VPg-eIF4G-eIF4A complex with 1:1:1 stoichiometry in the presence of eIF4A. The functional significance of this interaction is evident from the observation that peptides corresponding to the eIF4G-binding motif of MNV VPg mediate an interaction with translation initiation complexes in cells that is indistinguishable from that made by the intact protein, and inhibit norovirus translation in vitro. Further, the authors have identified a proteolytic processing step of the viral polyprotein precursor that is required for the VPg-eIF4G interaction, and suggest that this processing step might be linked to the differential regulation of translation and RNA replication phases in the virus life cycle. Taken together, the authors have provided significant new insights into the molecular mechanism of norovirus translational initiation and identified an interaction interface that could be targeted for antiviral drug development.
Bacterial genes that perform the same function are often found grouped together on the chromosome. These groups are sometimes transcribed together as an "operon," with a shared promoter and operator sequence. The genes that make up these groups are often found in the same order as they participate in biochemical reactions. Gene clusters have been found to occur in different species, but not always in the same order. The reason for this variability is not well understood. One theory is that the proximity of genes facilitates their collective transfer between species. Another theory is that by occupying less space, clustered genes are less likely to be disrupted by mutations. Yet another theory is that clustering confers a direct fitness advantage to the organism. These theories have been studied and debated over the years.
Malaria is a serious disease caused by a parasite called Plasmodium falciparum. When people living in malaria-endemic areas get infected, their bodies develop immunity to the parasite. But when women become pregnant for the first time, their immunity disappears, and they are at high risk of developing severe forms of malaria called pregnancy-associated malaria (PAM). Women with PAM have a higher chance of developing severe complications, and their fetuses are also at risk. The parasites that cause PAM are unique, as they bind to a specific protein called chondroitin sulfate A (CSA) in the placenta rather than other proteins they usually bind to in other parts of the body. A protein called VAR2CSA is responsible for this binding. When women have been pregnant before, they develop antibodies against VAR2CSA, but when they are pregnant for the first time, their bodies do not produce these antibodies. Scientists have found that this lack of antibodies is due to a special type of gene regulation that turns off the production of VAR2CSA in the placenta. However, the parasite can still produce VAR2CSA in other parts of the body, even if it is not in the placenta. Scientists have found that this regulation is not always turned off, and that some parasites still produce VAR2CSA even when the woman has not been pregnant before. These parasites may not be able to bind to CSA in the placenta, but they may still be able to cause damage in other parts of the body. This suggests that there may be other ways to protect against PAM, even if the regulation of VAR2CSA does not work as expected.
This study aimed to examine the differences in gene expression patterns in children infected with the DENV-1 serotype in Nicaragua compared to those infected with a mix of serotypes in Southeast Asia. The study found that there were significant differences in gene expression patterns between children with DHF and those with DSS, and that the differences were more pronounced in Nicaraguan patients with DSS. Additionally, the study conducted a "meta-analysis" to compare the gene expression patterns in Nicaraguan patients with those from existing datasets, and identified common themes and differences. Overall, this study provides important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying dengue pathogenesis and highlights the importance of considering serotype-specific differences in future research.
The difficulty of getting rid of infections caused by herpesviruses makes it important to understand how they first infect new hosts. One way that herpesviruses infect new hosts is through the respiratory tract. Murid Herpesvirus-4 (MuHV-4), a type of herpesvirus that infects mice, has been found to infect through the respiratory tract. To do this, MuHV-4 must bind to a specific protein called heparan sulfate, or HS, which is found on the surface of epithelial cells in the respiratory tract. MuHV-4 binds to HS through a protein called gp70, which is one of three proteins that MuHV-4 uses to bind HS. When MuHV-4 is missing just one of these proteins, it has a severe block in binding to HS. However, when all three of these proteins are missing, MuHV-4 is able to bind to HS, which suggests that they work together to control the binding of MuHV-4. This control is important because HS also binds to other proteins on the surface of epithelial cells that MuHV-4 does not want to bind. By controlling the binding of HS to these other proteins, MuHV-4 is able to efficiently infect new hosts through the respiratory tract.
This study investigates the regulation of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, a prevalent gastrointestinal pathogen. When Salmonella reaches the intestinal lumen, it can both invade epithelial cells and survive within phagocytic cells. To do this, Salmonella uses a variety of factors encoded within pathogenicity islands (PIs) on its chromosome. SPI-1 and SPI-2 are two of the best-studied PIs and encode factors required for invasion of non-phagocytic cells and survival within macrophages, respectively. The expression of SPI-1 is tightly regulated and induced only under certain conditions. The authors of this study found that the general transcription factor CRP is required to silence SPI-1 genes in exponentially growing cells. They also identified a new regulatory axis formed by CRP and a small RNA (sRNA) called Spot 42 that contributes to growth phase-specific activation of SPI-1 genes. In early stationary phase, CRP-cAMP indirectly regulates virulence by affecting the post-transcriptional regulation of hilD, the main target for signaling pathways controlling SPI-1 expression. In mid-logarithmic growth phase, CRP-cAMP represses hilD expression by a mechanism requiring Hfq and the 3’UTR of hilD mRNA. The authors suggest that hilD may be post-transcriptionally regulated by a CRP-cAMP controlled sRNA; however, this would be unusual given the fact that almost all Hfq-associated sRNAs have been characterized to date to recognize mRNAs in the 5’ region. Therefore, the authors propose that hilD may be post-transcriptionally regulated by an sRNA called Spot 42, which has not been previously characterized in Salmonella.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a mutation in a gene that causes the expansion of a specific type of DNA structure called a trinucleotide repeat (TNR). These repeats can become unstable and expand or contract over time, leading to a range of neurological and neuromuscular diseases. The toxicity and instability of TNRs are tissue-specific in a disease-specific manner, meaning that in some diseases, the affected and 'unstable' tissues partially coincide, leading to faster disease progression. In HD, the striatum is the most affected tissue and is also where TNR instability is most significant. Scientists have found that transcription (the process by which a gene's DNA is copied into RNA) is involved in TNR instability. They used mice to investigate this further and found that transcriptional activity is increased in the striatum compared to other tissues in both R6/1 and R6/2 HD mouse models. However, the authors suggest that chromatin (the structure of DNA and proteins that package it) is also important in this process, and that transcription initiation (the first step of transcription) is similar in the striatum and cerebellum of R6 mice. They also found that H3K36 trimethylation (a modification of DNA) and elongating RNA polymerase II (a protein involved in transcription) are increased in the striatum compared to other tissues in both R6/1 and R6/2 HD mouse models. Overall, the authors suggest that transcription elongation (the process by which a gene's RNA is produced) mediates tissue-specific somatic CAG instability in HD.
In this study, we looked at a man who had many infections with enteroviruses, which can cause a variety of diseases in humans, such as gastrointestinal, respiratory, myocardial, and central nervous system (CNS) diseases. These infections can be caused by many different types of enteroviruses, but some types, such as enterovirus 71 (EV71), are more likely to cause neurological complications. EV71 has been linked to outbreaks of hand-foot-and-mouth disease, which can be very serious. The goal of this study was to understand how EV71 spreads from the intestines to the brain and spinal cord in this man. To do this, we analyzed the genetic code of the EV71 virus from different parts of his body, such as his blood, urine, and feces. We found some changes in the genetic code of the virus that could be associated with its ability to spread to the brain and spinal cord. We also studied these changes in the laboratory to see if they might help the virus spread to the brain and spinal cord. Finally, we used computer models to analyze the changes we found and to see if they might be related to the ability of the virus to spread to the brain and spinal cord.
This article discusses the ability of bacteria to import extracellular DNA, a process known as competence, which allows bacteria to acquire new genes that increase genetic diversity and fitness. The article explains how this process is regulated by a set of genes, including comS and sigX, which are tightly regulated and expressed in response to quorum sensing. The article introduces the ComRS pathway, a specific mechanism for regulating competence in the genus Streptococcus. The ComRS pathway involves a pheromone precursor, ComS, which is processed and secreted from the cell to produce the active pheromone, XIP. Once in the cytoplasm, XIP binds to and activates ComR, a QS regulator, which then initiates the expression of competence genes. The article explains that there are different types of ComRS pathways, including type-I, type-II, and type-III, and that each type has different XIP and ComR sequences. The article introduces a new test-bed assay that uses S. mutans to measure the response of different type-II ComR proteins to various XIPs in bacterial culture. The assay revealed distinct degrees of specificity for XIP and also allowed demonstration of active ComRS systems that were only previously predicted. The article also explains how the authors obtained an X-ray crystal structure of the ComR from S. suis and used it as a guide to probe the structural features of the apo conformation of the XIP binding-site. By using site-directed mutagenesis, the authors were able to predict and create new active peptide-pheromones.
Centromeres are regions on chromosomes that help separate chromosomes during cell division. They can be found on all chromosomes and have a unique histone variant called CENP-A, which is responsible for the function of the centromere. Scientists have found that in some cases, centromeres move to a new location on the chromosome and continue to function there. They call these new centromeres neocentromeres. This can happen in humans as well as in other organisms. Scientists have been trying to understand how centromeres are inherited by the daughter cells during cell division. They have found that centromeres in many organisms are not defined by a specific DNA sequence, but by a unique histone variant called CENP-A. This histone variant is deposited at specific times during the cell cycle, and it marks the centromere region. Recent research in the yeast Candida albicans has shown that centromeres can be replicated at different times during the replication of the DNA, and that this replication timing is associated with the presence of CENP-A. This new understanding of how centromeres are inherited could have important implications for medical research, as many diseases are caused by problems with chromosome segregation.
Back pain is the most common cause of disability worldwide. Most people experience a new episode of back pain at some point in their lives. However, some people fail to recover from these episodes and go on to develop chronic back pain. Genetics play a role in the development of chronic back pain. A recent study aimed to identify genetic markers associated with chronic back pain in people of European ancestry. The study combined data from 16 community- and population-based cohorts, including those from the CHARGE and PainOmics consortia, and the UK Biobank. The researchers found several genetic markers associated with chronic back pain, which may help identify people who are at risk of developing this condition and may also help develop new treatments for chronic back pain.
Cysticercosis is a disease caused by a tapeworm that affects humans and pigs. This disease is particularly common in many developing countries but is often neglected because it has a variety of symptoms and there are no good ways to diagnose it. Additionally, many people with the disease don't have any symptoms. In Cameroon, a country in West Africa, there is a lot of data about cysticercosis in both humans and pigs. This data can be used to estimate the public health and economic importance of the disease and to better understand its global burden. Two methods, cost estimation and disability-adjusted life years (DALY), are used to make this estimate. Comparing these results to previous studies can help us understand the most important factors affecting the global burden of cysticercosis.
Staphylococcus aureus is a type of bacteria that has the ability to adapt to its environment. It is found on the skin and nose of many people and can cause infections. The bacteria has genes that are controlled by different types of regulators. One of these regulators is RNA, which is used to control the expression of other genes. RsaA is one example of a regulator RNA. It is controlled by a protein called Sigma B and helps control the growth of the bacteria. Through RsaA, the bacteria is able to form biofilms, which are communities of bacteria that stick together, and it stops making a substance called a capsule. This helps the bacteria survive in the body. In animal experiments, RsaA has been found to reduce the severity of acute infections and improve chronic infections. This suggests that RsaA plays a role in how the bacteria interact with the immune system.
Scientists are trying to develop a new way to study how HIV-1 uncoats in living cells. They have created a new tool called CypA-DsRed, which is a fluorescent protein that can bind to the HIV-1 virus capsid and show the loss of capsid during uncoating. They found that the majority of cores uncoat shortly after viral fusion, but a small fraction of incoming cores retain CypA-DsRed for several hours. This new tool will help scientists better understand the early steps in HIV-1 infection.
Prokaryotic DNA can be considered as a chain of overlapping oligonucleotides, and frequencies of oligonucleotides of different sizes reveal different patterns of bacterial and archaeal genomes. We can extract more information by studying trinucleotide (codon) frequencies, dinucleotide distributions (nearest neighbor frequencies), and oligonucleotide frequency skews. Oligonucleotide frequencies are influenced by codon distributions, which are correlated with GC-content. The GC content of bacterial genomes is correlated with their environment. The distribution of oligonucleotide frequencies can reveal other properties, such as DNA replication start and stop positions in bacteria, transcription and regulation sites, and GC skews in archaeal and slow replicating bacterial genomes. We examined oligonucleotide usage deviation from mean (OUD) and oligonucleotide usage variance from expected (OUV) in all sequenced bacterial and archaeal chromosomes. OUD measures oligonucleotide frequency variations in genomes, and OUV measures randomness or bias in oligonucleotide distributions. We found that tetranucleotide frequencies carry considerable genomic information potential. We performed statistical tests to examine how tetranucleotide frequencies fluctuated within chromosomes and how tetranucleotide distributions differed from random tetranucleotide frequencies calculated by mean genomic nucleotide frequencies. These tests were performed for all sequenced 402 prokaryotic chromosomes at the time, and their corresponding open reading frames. The first statistical test was concerned with the statistical information potential in different oligonucleotide sizes.
In humans, the process of meiosis is crucial for the formation of sperm and egg cells, but it can sometimes go wrong. This can lead to genetic disorders or birth defects. To prevent this, the DNA in chromosomes must be properly paired and exchanged, a process known as recombination. This process is regulated by a protein called PRDM9. Recent research has revealed that PRDM9 has a role in determining where recombination occurs in the human genome, which are called hotspots. PRDM9 is made up of a long array of zinc fingers, which are like molecular hooks that bind to specific parts of the DNA. Different versions of PRDM9 have different binding sites, which means they can affect where recombination happens in the genome. PRDM9 can also influence how the recombination process is completed. In some cases, the recombination process can go wrong and this can lead to genetic disorders. New research has revealed that PRDM9 can influence how the recombination process is completed in another way, which is called biased gene conversion. This can also lead to genetic disorders if it happens too often. Overall, PRDM9 plays a critical role in ensuring that the recombination process goes smoothly and that genetic disorders do not occur.
Chemicals are everywhere and their impact on human health is a concern. Many drugs are used to treat diseases but their mechanism of action is not always understood. These drugs can interact with environmental chemicals, which can lead to adverse effects. It is important to understand the mechanism of action of chemicals to evaluate their impact on human health. One way to do this is to identify all the possible molecular targets of a given chemical. There are several methods that have been published recently to identify new targets for drugs, using similar chemical structures. Another way to understand the impact of chemicals is to analyze their effect on gene expression. A new approach has been developed that integrates toxicogenomics data, chemical structures, protein-protein interaction data, disease information and functional annotation. The core of this procedure is based on the "target hopping" concept, which considers the effects on gene expression rather than just binding activity. This approach creates a network of associations between human proteins, called the Protein-Protein Association Network (P-PAN). This network is validated by comparing it with high confidence protein-protein interaction networks and by assessing the functional enrichment of clusters in the network. The P-PAN reveals both known and novel connections between chemicals and diseases or proteins. For example, it shows a connection between diethylhexylphthalate (DEHP) and gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor beta target, as well as between apocarotenal, a chemical found in spinach, and necrosis. This new approach integrates toxicogenomics data with other diverse data types and provides useful insights into the impact of chemicals on human health.
The current study presents a new model of how neurons in the primary auditory cortex of animals respond to sound stimuli. This model is called the network receptive field (NRF) and is composed of a network of nonlinear units that work together to process sound information. The NRF is designed to be more effective than previous models in capturing the complexity of sound processing in the auditory pathway. To do this, the NRF includes multiple nonlinear units that interact with each other and process information from lower order neurons. These nonlinear units work together to produce a more comprehensive and accurate model of sound processing in the auditory cortex. The NRF is trained using a regularization method to prevent overfitting, and cross-validation and generalization testing are used to ensure that the model can accurately predict neural responses to novel stimuli. The results of the study show that the NRF outperforms previous models in predicting the responses of auditory cortical neurons to natural stimuli, and that the NRF reveals sensitivity over substantially wider time and frequency ranges than previous models. The NRF also exhibits distinct nonlinear properties, including gain control and conjunctive feature selectivity, which may be critical to auditory cortex function.
The circadian system in mammals controls various rhythms through intracellular clockworks in neurons of the suprachiasmatic nuclei and virtually all other cells and tissues. This system is driven by a group of clock proteins that operate in transcriptional–translational feedback loops and drive rhythmic expression of approximately 10% of the mammalian transcriptome. The primary genome-wide driver for transcription of clock genes is the BMAL1–CLOCK heterodimer, which binds to E-box containing promoters to drive the cyclic expression of CCGs. The BMAL1–CLOCK complex also drives transcription of Rorα and REV-ERBα orphan nuclear receptor genes, which stabilize the circadian oscillator by driving cyclic expression of Bmal1. Rhythmic phosphorylation of BMAL1 appears to be a critical step for clock function. In particular, cyclic BMAL1 modification is more critical in the clock machinery than cyclic transcription. The kinase CK2 phosphorylates BMAL1 and is pivotal for regulating the mammalian circadian clock. Depletion of CK2 results in impaired clock gene oscillation. Here, we investigated the universal role and oscillatory mechanism of the circadian CK2-mediated BMAL1 phosphorylation. We found that CRY proteins are involved in rhythmic BMAL1 modification and proposed a model that explains how CRY proteins produce circadian oscillations and integrate posttranslational modification events (i.e., BMAL1 phosphorylation) in the negative limb of the core transcription–translation feedback loop.
This paper provides an overview of bile salts, their structure, and their functions in the body. Bile salts are made of cholesterol and are stored in the gall bladder, where they are released into the intestine and aid in the digestion of fats and the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Bile salts also play a role in the elimination of excess cholesterol and waste metabolic products produced in the liver. Bile salts have been studied in vitro to understand the mechanisms involved in their resistance to antibacterial activities. Salmonella, a type of bacteria that can cause food poisoning, is able to survive in the harsh environment of the gall bladder by invading the epithelial cells, forming biofilms, or using specific cell functions and mechanisms. The paper also explains the concept of "preadaptation" in Salmonella, which is a state where the bacteria are already resistant to bile without previous adaptation. Mutations and the activation of specific cell functions are involved in preadaptation. The paper highlights the importance of bile salts and their functions in the body, as well as the need for further research to understand the mechanisms involved in bile resistance and preadaptation.
Bacterial chromatin is highly organized, with supercoiled loops separated by barriers created by certain proteins, resulting in a compact nucleoid. Escherichia coli (E. coli) chromatin has four structured macro-domains and two less-structured regions. These regions interact in a specific way, forming a ring structure that helps with chromosome movements during the cell cycle. Supercoiling is essential for many DNA-related processes and is tightly controlled by topoisomerases and histone-like proteins, which also play a role in gene transcription. The evolution experiments showed that supercoiling is under strong selection in E. coli populations. Mu, a temperate bacteriophage, requires DNA supercoiling for transposition. The transposable phage Mu integrates into essentially random locations on the E. coli chromosome. The transposition of Mu from mini-Mu plasmids in vitro requires DNA supercoiling to form a high-order transpososome. The transposase is important in vitro, but not in vivo, for Mu end pairing. The goal of this study was to investigate the order of interactions between three cis-acting sites, namely Mu L and R ends and an enhancer element E, in vivo upon initiation of transposition. The Cre recombinase-mediated exchange at two strategically placed loxP sites was used to determine the topology of interactions between a given Mu site and the other two. Surprisingly, the ends were already paired in a prophage, and the transposase was not essential for their pairing. Further investigation showed that Mu SGS, other Mu cis and trans factors, and several host NAPs play a role in Mu end pairing. The MuB protein, expressed at a low level in the prophage, likely provides a NAP-like function. The implications of this work for the maintenance of large selfish DNA elements on a bacterial genome are discussed.
The study aimed to understand the dynamics of gametocytes in Plasmodium vivax (Pv) and Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) infections in school-aged children from Papua New Guinea. The study found that Pv infections produced higher gametocyte densities than Pf infections at the same levels of asexual parasitaemia. Pv gametocytes mature more rapidly than Pf gametocytes. The study also revealed that relapsing Pv infections contributed to 73% of the gametocyte carriage.
The activity of small GTPases, such as RhoA, Cdc42, and Rac1, is controlled by a number of factors, including spatial localization, nucleotide binding, and binding to Rho guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI). These three GTPases are important for cytoskeleton organization, cell migration, and polarization, and the up/down regulation of GDI has been linked to metastatic and chemoresistant cancers. The spatial localization of these three GTPases is important for activation by membrane-bound guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF), which promote GTPase release of GDP and binding to GTP. The GTP state activates and/or recruits effectors at the membrane, producing the downstream actin-mediated cellular response. The GTPase activating proteins (GAP) bind to the active GTPases and promote conversion of the nucleotide GTP into GDP, inactivating the GTPase. Binding to GDI regulates the amount of GTPases available for activation. Another potential function of GDI is to protect the cytosolic fraction of GTPase from degradation. The interactions between GDI's and GTPases can be regulated, modulating the cycling for spatial and temporal localization. For example, the affinities between GDI and GTPases may depend on nucleotide state, experimental conditions, post-translational modifications, phosphorylation state of GTPases and GDI, sometimes resulting in translocation of the inactive GDI to the membrane. The dependence of nucleotide state on GTPase membrane affinity has been studied via constructs mimicking its constitutively active and inactive forms. In yeast, it has been proposed that the cycling between active and inactive form also impacts the solubility of Cdc42. However, the constitutively active mutant Q61L used in this study seems to very poorly interact with GDI in vivo in comparison to in vitro. In addition, the lipid composition of membranes can shift the GTPase population from cytosolic GDI-bound to membrane-bound. As a further complication, the delivery and removal of GTPases from the membrane may also be independent of GDI. Studies in polarized yeast indicate vesicular trafficking as an rdi1 (the GDI in yeast) independent mechanism for delivery of GTPase to the plasma membrane. However, numerical analysis revealed that vesicular traffic alone will only result in GTPase polarization if there is a yet unknown mechanism for Cdc42 concentration in the trafficking vesicles. A second GDI independent mechanism was revealed by in vitro experiments from Cerione's group. Cdc42 dissociates from the membrane at the same rate, whether in presence or absence of GDI; about 10% of RacGDP is translocated from the lipid membranes to the soluble fraction in absence of GDI, in contrast to negligible amounts for RacGTP or Cdc42. Similar results for Rac were obtained in control experiments against different GDI constructs and Sf9 cell membranes. In vivo experiments on cultured fibroblasts also highlight that the removal rate of Rac from the membrane in those cells is not dependent on GDI. The Rac apparent membrane dissociation rate: a) is independent of GDI expression levels; b) is independent of spatial localization (protusive vs. quiescent regions); c) is dependent on nucleotide state; d) the reduced dissociation rate for active Rac is not due to elevated signaling. In contrast, in cultured yeast, rdi1 promotes the fastest mechanism of Cdc42 membrane removal. In order to integrate and reconcile these different observations, in this work we computationally analyze the mechanisms by which GTPases can be removed from and delivered to the membrane, estimating their relative contributions. To achieve this, we initially developed a ‘lumped’ model that allows us to readily compare GDI-mediated and GDI-independent GTPase cycling. Simulation results over a wide range of parameters are conveniently displayed as contour plots. These charts serve as a visual tool to evaluate the effect of modifying the affinities between GTPases and membrane or GDI on the GTPase membrane bound fraction. The parameters of the lumped model reveal the function of GDI in GTPase cycling. We also develop an analysis of the role of vesicle trafficking in the mechanism for GTPase cycling in yeast. We then present a more detailed model for GTPase membrane cycling, explicitly accounting for the nucleotide state and interaction with effector proteins. This model permits us to derive all the rate constants involved in Rac cycling, from experimental data on cultured fibroblasts. The functional form and parameters extracted for Rac cycling are consistent with the role of crosstalk, as emphasized by Burridge and colleagues. In order to illustrate the importance of identifying such parameters in vivo, we analyze Rac membrane translocation in glucose stimulated β-cells. The analysis suggests that 2 mechanisms must be contributing to the delivery of Rac to the membrane: phosphorylation-mediated downregulation of the affinity between Rac and GDI and an increase in affinity between Rac and the membrane, possibly via lipid signaling. Overall, our analysis demonstrates that the Rho-GTPase cycling can access qualitatively diverse pathways in different cellular systems or through different experimental manipulations.
Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasitic worms that infects the intestines or urinary tract. It affects approximately 240 million people worldwide and is considered a neglected tropical disease. To reduce the burden of the disease, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends treating people with praziquantel, a drug that kills the worms. However, the WHO recommends treating school-aged children (SAC, 5-14 years) differently from adults. SAC are more likely to be infected by the parasite and may therefore be more important to target with treatment. However, the WHO does not currently recommend treating adults with praziquantel. Recent studies have shown that praziquantel may be safe and effective in treating pre-school aged children (pre-SAC, under 5 years). WHO recommends monitoring and evaluating treatment programmes regularly to determine progress. However, most data is collected from SAC only, which may not be an accurate indicator of the burden of infection in adults. To determine the impact of treatment strategies, it is important to collect broader age-specific data, including data on adults. This study explores how different age profiles of infection and burdens of infection in adults can impact the treatment coverage levels recommended by WHO. It highlights the importance of monitoring and evaluating treatment programmes regularly, and collecting data on all age groups.
Epilepsy is a brain disorder characterized by recurrent seizures that are caused by abnormal electrical activity in the brain. Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a common form of epilepsy that occurs when seizures start in the temporal lobe of the brain. Anti-seizure drugs are the first line of treatment for epilepsy, but surgery can be an effective treatment option for people with TLE who do not respond to medications. In TLE surgery, the brain tissue that is believed to be causing the seizures is removed. However, not all patients who undergo surgery become seizure-free. Researchers have used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to identify areas of the brain that are affected by TLE. Recently, it has been suggested that TLE may involve areas of the brain beyond the temporal lobe. Diffusion weighted MRI (DW-MRI) is a type of MRI that allows researchers to infer the pathways of white matter fibers that connect different parts of the brain. Researchers have used DW-MRI to create a detailed map of the structural brain connectivity in people with TLE. They have also used this information to create a computer model of the brain that can simulate the electrical activity that occurs during seizures. Researchers have used this model to predict the effectiveness of different types of surgery for TLE. They found that the model predicted that surgery would be effective in reducing seizures, but that subject-specific surgery would be even more effective in reducing seizures than standard surgery.
This article is about a virus called human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) and its ability to cause tumors. HHV-8 is associated with a number of diseases, including Kaposi's sarcoma, primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), and multicentric Castleman's disease. HHV-8 has several genes that have been shown to have oncogenic properties, meaning that they can promote tumor growth. However, most of these genes are active during the replication process of the virus, suggesting that they do not directly contribute to the development of tumors, but rather help the virus to replicate. It has been previously shown that the vIRF-1 protein of HHV-8 can inhibit the p53 protein, which is involved in tumor suppression. In this study, the authors found that vIRF-1 can also inhibit the GRIM19 protein, which is involved in apoptosis (cell death). They also found that vIRF-1 can bind to and inhibit the ATM protein, which is involved in the repair of DNA damage. These findings suggest that vIRF-1 may have an important role in the development of HHV-8-related diseases, and could be a target for new treatments. The authors conclude that further research is needed to understand the mechanisms by which vIRF-1 interacts with these proteins, and how these interactions contribute to the development of HHV-8-related diseases.
The human lung is constantly exposed to many microorganisms and foreign substances. The lung immune system helps protect us from these harmful substances by removing them quickly. However, sometimes the immune system overreacts and causes damage to the delicate structures of the lung. This damage can lead to acute lung injury, which can result in impaired gas exchange and even death. The air-interface structure of the lung contains a complex immune cell population that helps to control lung homeostasis and prevent damage from occurring. One of the most important players in this process is the αVβ6 integrin, which is only found in the lung. Deletion of the β6 subunit of this integrin has been shown to protect mice from acute lung injury caused by bleomycin, ventilator-associated lung injury, airway hyper-responsiveness, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In addition, β6 KO mice have large and foamy alveolar macrophages that produce more of a type of enzyme called MMP12. Respiratory infections such as influenza can lead to acute lung injury. Deletion of the β6 subunit in mice has been shown to protect them from influenza-induced acute lung injury. This protection is due to the fact that αVβ6 helps regulate the lung's immune response to infections. These findings have important implications for the treatment of acute lung injury, as transient inhibition of αVβ6 may be an effective therapy.
The leishmaniases are a group of vector-borne tropical diseases that affect millions of people in the world, mostly in tropical and subtropical regions. The most common form of the disease is called ATL, which is caused by the parasite Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis and affects the skin and/or mucous membranes. One of the challenges of diagnosing ATL is that the parasites are difficult to detect in the skin and mucous membranes, especially in mucosal lesions. To help diagnose this disease, doctors use a test called the LST, which involves injecting a sample of the parasite into the skin and measuring the swelling that occurs. This study aims to compare the results of the LST in people suspected of having ATL in an area where this disease is common. It includes a comparison of the results of the LST with other clinical and demographic factors, such as age, gender, the type of lesion, and the duration of the disease.
Atherosclerosis is a form of chronic inflammation that causes plaque buildup in artery walls and is a leading cause of heart disease and death worldwide. Genetic variants can increase the risk of atherosclerosis, and researchers have used genome-wide association studies to identify over 40 genetic regions that contribute to this risk. However, the precise mechanism of how these genetic variants increase the risk of atherosclerosis is often unknown. In this study, researchers used a technique called FAIRE-seq to measure changes in chromatin accessibility in human macrophages in response to atherosclerosis-associated lipids. They found that these changes in chromatin accessibility were correlated with local gene expression and the binding of key transcription factors. Additionally, they found that many of these regions contained variants that increase the risk of coronary artery disease. They also identified a specific variant that affects the expression of a gene involved in foam cell formation and atherosclerosis. The protein product of this gene is upregulated in foam cells and has increased enzymatic activity for degrading pro-inflammatory mediators. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of atherosclerosis and suggest potential therapeutic targets.
Trachoma is a problem in many parts of the world. It is caused by a type of bacteria that infects the eyes. The bacteria can cause swelling and redness in the eyelids, which can eventually lead to blindness if not treated. There are ways to prevent trachoma from spreading, but it can be hard to know where to focus those efforts. In this study, researchers looked at how well a single treatment with antibiotics could reduce the spread of trachoma in Malawi. They found that the treatment was effective and helped to reduce the spread of trachoma. This study is important because it helps researchers and health workers know how to best treat trachoma in different places around the world.
Scientists have discovered six plant proteins, called calcium-dependent protein kinases (CPKs), that help plants fight off invading pathogens. These proteins play a crucial role in recognizing when a plant is under attack and then triggering the plant's immune response. The scientists found that different CPKs are involved in different parts of the immune response, including the production of nitric oxide and the activation of programmed cell death. They also discovered that different CPKs interact with different proteins inside the plant to trigger these immune responses. This new information will help scientists understand how plants recognize and respond to pathogens more effectively.
The article focuses on the prevalence of schistosomiasis in Mali. The study found that the overall prevalence of schistosomiasis in Mali was 55%, with a case distribution orbiting the 7–14 age-category. The study highlights the lack of Schistosoma sp. time-series forecasting methods, particularly in Sahelian locations such as Mali. To address this issue, the study used general-purpose exponential smoothing (ES) methods within a state-space framework to produce contemporaneous on-line forecasts of Schistosoma sp. consultation rates for the district of Niono in Mali. The state-space framework allowed for the capture of seasonal and inter-annual TS fluctuations and could assist with managing Schistosoma sp. infection in this district and possibly elsewhere in the Sahel.
Herpesviruses, like human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), have the ability to interfere with the cell cycle of infected cells to help the virus replicate. To do this, HCMV encodes two proteins, pUL21a and pp150, which have specific interactions with the cell cycle. pUL21a blocks the progression of the cell cycle at the mitotic stage by targeting cyclin A for proteasomal degradation. On the other hand, pp150 arrests the cell cycle at the G0/G1 stage, preventing viral replication. However, pp150 is also subject to cyclin A-CDK-dependent regulation, which allows viral gene expression to resume in the G2 stage. In this study, the authors found that the pp150-RXL motif alone is not essential for viral growth, but when combined with a mutation in the pUL21a-RXL motif, it enhances the mitotic phenotype and growth defect of a pUL21a-RXL single mutant virus. This suggests that pUL21a and pp150 work together as a fail-safe system to ensure undisturbed HCMV replication under non-mitotic conditions.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rare, progressive and fatal neuromuscular disorder that affects motor neurons, leading to muscle weakness and paralysis. The majority of ALS cases are sporadic, meaning they occur without a family history of the disease, but 5-10% of cases are familial, meaning they are inherited in a Mendelian fashion within a family. While there is only one approved treatment for ALS, there has been a recent explosion in the number of genes linked to ALS, thanks to advances in next-generation sequencing techniques. However, many of the known ALS genes have been identified in familial cases, and the genetic landscape of sporadic ALS remains largely unknown. In this study, the authors used a hypothesis-driven targeted sequencing approach to identify new variants in known ALS disease genes, as well as genes associated with ALS, in a cohort of sporadic ALS patients and controls. They also tested previously identified variants in their cohort, and identified new variants in genes previously identified in a trio study and in genes that contain RNA recognition motifs, like TDP-43 and FUS. The study showed an increase in novel and rare variants in cases versus controls, and demonstrated the utility of rare variant binning to show that sporadic ALS individuals have a higher burden of deleterious mutations in previously implicated ALS genes. The study highlights the challenges and limitations of such studies and the need for further studies with more patient and control samples, but also provides important information on the genetic landscape of sporadic ALS.
Influenza is a dangerous virus that can be fatal, especially in children and the elderly. Scientists are trying to understand more about how the body's immune system fights against this virus. A protein called interleukin-6 (IL-6) is thought to play a role in how well the immune system fights against the virus, but it is unclear how important it really is. To figure this out, scientists studied mice with and without IL-6 to see how they responded to the virus. They found that without IL-6, mice did not develop as much long-term memory of the virus as they did with IL-6. This means that IL-6 is important for helping the immune system remember how to fight against the virus in the future.
Researchers have found that Dnmt2, a protein that helps DNA methylation in bacteria and some eukaryotes, can also methylate tRNAAsp, a type of transfer RNA. They also discovered that enolase, a protein involved in sugar metabolism, can inhibit Dnmt2. This finding adds to our understanding of how DNA methylation works and how it is regulated.
The study was aimed at discovering miRNAs, which are small non-coding RNA molecules, in the saliva of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes and understanding the effect of CHIKV infection on miRNA expression profiles. The researchers used deep sequencing to identify and characterize miRNAs in mosquito saliva. They discovered a total of 103 mature miRNAs in Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus saliva, of which 31 were potential novel miRNAs. They found that 59 miRNAs were upregulated in Ae. aegypti CHIKV-infected saliva, and 30 miRNAs were upregulated in Ae. albopictus CHIKV-infected saliva. These findings suggest that miRNAs play a vital role in CHIKV transmission and dissemination in the host.
Mitochondria are important organelles in cells that produce energy for the body. They have their own DNA that is different from the DNA in the cell's nucleus. Mitochondrial DNA is smaller than nuclear DNA and it contains genes that are essential for the body. These genes make proteins that help the electron transport chain, which is a group of proteins that helps the mitochondria make energy. The remaining proteins needed for energy production are made in the nucleus and then sent to the mitochondria. The mitochondrial DNA has its own replicase, a protein that copies the DNA, and its own polymerase, a protein that adds nucleotides to the copied DNA. There are also other proteins in the nucleus that help replicate the mitochondrial DNA and make sure that it is copied correctly. Rad51, Rad52, and Rad59 are nuclear proteins that are essential for recombination, a process that helps fix DNA damage. It is not known how these proteins help fix DNA damage in the mitochondria. They have been found in the mitochondria, which suggests that they may help fix DNA damage in the mitochondria. There is also a system in yeast that can be used to study the process of repairing DNA damage in the mitochondria. This system can show when a specific type of DNA damage occurs in the mitochondria and how long it takes to fix the damage. The results of this study showed that Rad51, Rad52, and Rad59 are important for fixing DNA damage in the mitochondria. This study also showed that these proteins have different roles in the nucleus and the mitochondria.
Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) is a big health problem in many parts of the world, particularly in developing countries or disadvantaged communities within developed countries. It is caused by an abnormal immune response to a type of bacteria called Group A Streptococcus (GAS) that infects the throat (streptococcal pharyngitis) or skin in people who are susceptible to it. GAS is spread through direct person-to-person contact via saliva or nasal secretions. RHD is a long-term, debilitating condition that can cause heart problems like arrhythmias and heart failure. It most often affects children and young adults. To prevent RHD, it is important to prevent GAS infection and stop it from causing ARF and RHD. Current prevention strategies include early detection and treatment of GAS infections, regular injections of penicillin, and medical and surgical treatment of heart failure. However, these strategies may not be effective in areas with poverty or disadvantage, and medical treatment may not completely eliminate the risk of RHD. To help prevent RHD in these areas, it is important to understand the specific aspects of poverty that create the conditions that cause RHD, and to evaluate any public health interventions that target these factors. We did a study to find out more about this.
The PhoQ/PhoP system in E. coli is a well-known example of a two-component signaling pathway that is responsible for responding to a variety of environmental stimuli, such as low Mg2+, low pH, and the presence of cationic antimicrobial peptides. It controls transcription of a large set of genes and has an architecture found in many bacterial two-component signaling systems. The system is bifunctional, meaning it has both a kinase and a phosphatase activity, which allows it to regulate its input-output relationship, suppress cross-talk, and have autoregulation. The PhoQ/PhoP system responds to stimuli in a graded manner, meaning that as the stimulus increases, the response also increases. However, when a single point mutation is made in the histidine kinase PhoQ, it abolishes its phosphatase activity, resulting in bistability. Bistability means that the mutant can exist in two different states for many generations - an OFF and an ON state. This mutation is shared among many two-component systems. However, the bistable phenotype comes at a cost to the fitness of the population, which can become trapped in a low-fitness state. This is an example of how a single mutation can drastically change the properties of a protein and its network, and how epigenetic traps can affect the fitness of a population.
The amoeba Naegleria fowleri can cause a serious infection of the brain known as primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM). PAM is a rare but serious condition that affects healthy children and young adults and is fatal in most cases. The amoeba infects people when contaminated water enters the body through the nose and then travels along the olfactory neuroepithelial route to invade the brain. Currently, there is no effective treatment for PAM and the only option is to treat the infection with a combination of drugs, including anti-mycotic drugs, antibiotics, and an anti-inflammatory drug. However, some anti-fungal drugs, known as conazoles, have been found to be effective against the amoeba in vitro and may be useful in treating PAM.
Gut worms affect around 2 billion people worldwide and are the most common parasite infection in humans. These parasites can cause many problems such as anemia, growth stunting, undernutrition, and cognitive deficits. When a person is infected with gut worms, their body produces a lot of a kind of protein called cytokines. These cytokines are important for fighting off the worms. One cytokine in particular, called IL-4, helps expel the worms from the body. To fight off gut worms, the body needs a specific kind of protein called IL-4Rα. Without this protein, the body cannot effectively fight off gut worms.
Bartonella is a type of bacteria found in many animals, including humans. It is responsible for several diseases in humans and animals, and it is often difficult to trace the source of infection. In this study, researchers constructed large phylogenies from genes found in the blood of humans and animals, using two different genes: 16s rRNA and citrate synthase. The 16s rRNA gene is often used in studies of microorganisms found in water or soil, while the citrate synthase gene is commonly sequenced in Bartonella studies. By analyzing these genes, the researchers were able to determine the evolutionary history of Bartonella, patterns of host switching, and its spillover into humans or from human commensals into wild species.
The human genome contains a large number of noncoding RNAs, which include lncRNAs and small ncRNAs. These RNAs play important roles in several cellular processes, such as regulation of gene expression and maintenance of chromatin architecture. LncRNAs can act as scaffolds to keep several proteins tethered to a specific cellular compartment or recruit proteins to a specific chromatin site. Nuclear-restricted lncRNAs act as structural components of specific sub-nuclear domains. Some lncRNAs regulate transcription and RNA processing events, and serve as precursors for small RNAs. Several lncRNAs exhibit temporal and spatial expression patterns, indicating vital and diverse biological roles of lncRNAs. A recent study demonstrated cell cycle-regulated expression of lncRNAs in mammalian cells. The authors identified lncRNAs encoded in close proximity to more than 50 protein-coding genes involved in cell cycle, including cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases. During cell cycle progression, the levels of both lncRNAs and the nearby cell cycle gene mRNAs displayed dynamic fluctuations. However, the expression of these lncRNAs did not correlate either positively or negatively with the expression of the nearby cell cycle genes, indicating that although some lncRNAs and mRNAs could be regulated in concert, they may not necessarily regulate each other. On the other hand, several other studies have demonstrated the involvement of lncRNAs in regulating the expression of cell cycle genes in cis. For example, ANRIL lncRNA, which is located upstream of the tumor suppressor locus encoding p16INK4A and p15INK4B, recruits TLS, an RNA-binding protein, to the CCND1 gene in response to DNA damage, and results in the transcription repression of CCND1. Additionally, lncRNAs can influence alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs, which can alter the local concentration of a particular splicing factor upon a specific external signal or during specific stages of the cell cycle. This mechanism could be important for fine-tuning the cellular response to external signals and coordinating RNA polymerase II transcription and pre-mRNA splicing during the cell cycle. Finally, MALAT1, a highly abundant nucleus-restricted lncRNA, modulates the cellular distribution and activity of SR splicing factors, thereby influencing alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. MALAT1 has a pro-proliferative function, and its depletion in normal human diploid fibroblasts induces DNA-damage response and results in the activation of p53 and its target genes. The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to the cellular levels of p53, indicating that p53 is an important effector of MALAT1 function. Furthermore, MALAT1 is involved in regulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of oncogenic transcription factors, especially those that control mitotic progression.
JH is a key hormone that helps insects grow and reproduce. It helps insects stay in their larval stage and prevents them from turning into adults when exposed to a hormone called 20E. When JH is not present, the insect turns into an adult. Met is a gene that has been found to be the JH receptor. It helps JH bind to other genes to control development and reproduction in insects. The Met gene is important for egg production and development in many insects. JH helps prepare the insect's fat body for egg production, and it also affects how eggs are laid. Met plays an important role in JH-dependent egg production, and it helps the insect's fat body produce more eggs. JH also helps the insects' oocytes mature, which is also controlled by Met.
Leprosy is a contagious disease caused by bacteria. Since antibiotic treatment was introduced in the 1980s, the number of leprosy cases has decreased dramatically. However, there are still many cases of leprosy worldwide. Leprosy can cause nerve damage, which can lead to deformities. To prevent disabilities, it is important to treat nerve damage early. The treatment usually involves a medicine called prednisolone, which reduces inflammation and relieves pressure on the nerves. However, it is not always possible to adjust the treatment to the individual's needs in field clinics. For this reason, the World Health Organization recommends a standardized treatment that lasts for 12 weeks. While observational studies suggest that prednisolone can improve nerve function in many cases, this has never been confirmed in a clinical trial. It is not clear how long prednisolone treatment should last to be most effective. Therefore, we conducted a clinical trial to determine whether a 32-week prednisolone course is more effective than a 20-week course in restoring and improving recent clinical nerve damage.
The two closely related cervid species, European red deer and Rocky Mountain elk, have different types of mating calls. European red deer make low frequency roars, while Rocky Mountain elk make high frequency bugles. The red deer's mating call has low vocal tract resonance characteristics that provide reliable information about body size, which is related to physiological, ecological, reproductive, and aggressive factors. In contrast, the elk's high fundamental frequency whistle-like bugle (around 1000 Hz) does not consistently provide information about body size. To better understand the physiology of this system, we simulated red deer and elk calls using a finite-element model of oscillating vocal folds positioned within a laryngeal cartilaginous framework, applying intrinsic laryngeal muscle activations and a wave propagation model of the vocal tract.
The article explains how next generation sequencing has enabled a powerful technique for large scale profiling of transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications. This technique is called Chromatin Immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput next generation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and is commonly used to map DNA fragments to a reference genome and retain reads that map to unique locations. However, discarding multi-reads, which map to multiple locations, can lead to inaccurate estimation of expression of genes that reside in repetitive regions. Furthermore, ChIP-seq data analysis software do not take multi-reads into account. Therefore, the article investigates the effects of discarding multi-reads on two different ChIP-seq datasets: STAT1 binding in interferon-stimulated HeLa S3 cells and GATA1 binding in mouse G1E-ER4 cells. The article develops a method for utilizing multi-reads and illustrates that incorporation of multi-reads can lead to an increase of up to 25% in the sequencing depth and identify high quality novel peaks. Location analysis of these peaks reveals that a large fraction of them reside in close proximity to promoters and in genic regions within segmental duplications of the genomes. Furthermore, true peaks are highly enriched for retrotransposon elements such as LINE and LTR. The article supports its computational experiments by experimental validation of a subset of GATA1 peaks that were only identifiable when multi-reads were incorporated. This leads to identification of novel GATA1 target genes.
The study focused on the health and economic consequences of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) on disadvantaged populations from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). The authors argued that innovative and intensified disease management (IDM) is needed to control or eliminate these diseases. They highlighted the fact that these populations often live in rural or remote areas, which limits their access to diagnosis and treatment of both the diseases and the disabilities they cause. The authors emphasized that relatively few studies have examined the impact of NTDs on the productivity and out-of-pocket payments (OPPs) of individuals, households, communities, and countries. They pointed out that controlling and eliminating NTDs would have a direct and sustainable effect on the economic growth and financial welfare of the affected populations and consequently lead to greater national and global prosperity. The authors also mentioned that advances in understanding the economic consequences of NTDs could help to further encourage prevention and control actions. They argued that these efforts are a good investment, as they would result in increased health policy dialogue, and could assure funders and policymakers that resources committed to these efforts are worthwhile.
Scientists have studied how the brain processes sensory information by looking at neurons that only respond to certain types of stimuli. These neurons are thought to provide more information about the sensory input if they are more selective, or if they respond to a narrower range of sensory input parameters. In the auditory cortex, where we studied this, neurons tend to respond to a wide range of sounds at the beginning of a stimulus, but as time goes by they become more selective, responding to fewer sounds. Based on this, it's been thought that the more selective (sparse) responses at the later time points would encode the identity of the sounds, while the less selective (dense) responses at the beginning encode the presence of the sound. However, our study found that this theory is incorrect. We looked at 171 neurons in marmoset primary auditory cortex and found that our results contradicted the current theory. Instead, our results suggest a new sensory encoding principle that could apply to other sensory systems.
This study examines the role of OX40, a co-stimulatory molecule that helps T cells survive and function, during LCMV infection. While OX40 is needed for T cell responses to LCMV during acute infection, it is not as important during chronic infection. In fact, OX40-deficient mice are unable to control the virus during chronic infection. This shows that OX40 is important for controlling LCMV during persistent infection, but not during acute infection.
Scientists discovered that fish and other swimming creatures share a common pattern of movement that has evolved independently at least eight times across three different types of animals. This pattern is characterized by undulating elongated fins while keeping the body rigid. The specific wavelength (SW) of this pattern is approximately 20 times the mean amplitude of movement. This pattern is not restricted to any specific type of animal and is observed in fish, invertebrates, and jawed vertebrates. Scientists call this pattern the optimal specific wavelength (OSW) and suggest that it is the most efficient way for these animals to swim. This finding sheds new light on the evolution of swimming in marine animals and provides a quantitative framework for understanding this complex phenomenon.
The formation of the cerebral cortex is a complex process that involves many steps, including cell proliferation and differentiation. At the early stages of cortical development, neurons divide to produce two daughter neurons. These neurons then migrate away from the ventricular zone and into the cortical plate. Scientists have found that two condensin protein complexes, called condensin I and condensin II, are important for chromosome inheritance during mitosis. However, it is not known which condensin complex is more important in cortical development. In this study, scientists used conditional knockout (cKO) mice to investigate the roles of condensin I and II in NSC divisions during cortical development. Surprisingly, the scientists found that both condensin I and II are essential for NSC division and survival. Loss of either one of the condensin complexes induces DNA damage and p53 nuclear accumulation, eventually leading to apoptosis. The scientists also found that depletion of individual condensin causes distinct phenotypes, indicating that they have non-overlapping functions. Most importantly, the scientists found that pericentromeric heterochromatin regions form abnormally large clusters in condensin II-depleted neurons. Overall, this study provides important insights into the distinct functions of condensin I and II in cortical development.
This paper describes the life cycle of Schistosoma mansoni, a parasite that causes intestinal schistosomiasis. The authors provide an overview of the parasite's genome and life cycle, highlighting the sexual dimorphism that occurs in the adult stage. The authors also discuss how the parasite interacts with its host and the role of host immune and endocrine signals in the development of the parasite. The authors provide a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptome of S. mansoni at various developmental stages, including cercariae, schistosomula, and adult worms. Additionally, the authors provide an analysis of the chromatin structure of S. mansoni before and after sexual differentiation. Overall, the paper provides valuable insights into the development and reproduction of S. mansoni and its interactions with its host.
The study proposes a new approach for measuring the quality of manual curation. It introduces two probabilistic models to quantify the certainty of individual annotations made by several curators. These models are tested using computer simulations and applied to a newly annotated corpus of 10,000 sentences, each of which was annotated by three experts. To test the utility of the computational predictions, the authors randomly sampled a subset of 1,000 sentences for reannotation by five new experts. The results of three- and eight-expert curation are compared to evaluate the models' predictions. This approach can help to improve and enhance existing curation methods and ensure consistent quality control in biomedical research.
Andes virus, also known as ANDV, is a type of virus that causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS), a potentially fatal illness that affects the lungs. There are no approved vaccines or treatments for HPS, but research is underway to develop them. One approach being explored is using antibodies from animals that have been vaccinated against the virus. In particular, antibodies from geese that have been vaccinated against ANDV have shown promise as a potential treatment for HPS. Researchers have tested the effectiveness of these antibodies in a model of HPS in Syrian hamsters and found that they can protect the hamsters from the disease.
This paper is about how changes in the way that DNA is methylated can contribute to cancer. Researchers have known for a long time that changes in DNA methylation patterns are common in cancer cells. Over the last 30 years, many studies have helped to understand what these changes look like in general. Recent studies have used a new technology called whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to confirm this model and show that some parts of the genome are hypermethylated (meaning that the DNA is more likely to be methylated) while others are hypomethylated (meaning that the DNA is less likely to be methylated). The enzymes that are responsible for adding methyl groups to DNA are called DNA methyltransferases. There are three of these enzymes: Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, and Dnmt3b. These enzymes have been linked to cancer in many studies, but it is not clear exactly how they contribute to cancer. This paper describes how mutations in the Dnmt3a gene have been found in some types of blood cancer, and how these mutations are associated with a poor prognosis. This suggests that Dnmt3a might play a role in the development of these cancers. However, the methylation differences between patients with wildtype and mutant Dnmt3a do not seem very big. A recent study in mice that had conditional deletion of Dnmt3a in hematopoietic stem cells showed that this deletion caused both hypermethylation (where the DNA was more likely to be methylated) and hypomethylation (where the DNA was less likely to be methylated) of promoter regions. This suggests that Dnmt3a plays a role in regulating the methylation of genes. The paper also describes how deleting Dnmt3a in mice with lung cancer caused the loss of methylation in large active chromatin domains. This is a new function for Dnmt3a that has not been described before.
The study aimed to understand how different parts of the brain are connected and how they work together to create complex behaviors. Specifically, the study focused on the songbird premotor nucleus HVC, which is responsible for producing highly precise, learned temporal sequences. The authors developed new methods for multi-channel electrophysiology and calcium imaging in singing birds to investigate how activity in HVC is organized in space and time. Through their research, the authors found that activity patterns of excitatory and inhibitory neurons are spatially clustered, and that two cell types, HVCX projection neurons and HVC interneurons, fire in alternating phases of a local 30 Hz rhythm. These results show that there is a fundamental mesoscopic length scale and timescale in the premotor cortical area HVC, which may be a core property of motor cortical microcircuits across species.
Scientists have been studying how the lifespan of organisms is controlled by both genetic and environmental factors. They have found that loss-of-function mutations in a specific part of a cellular process can increase the lifespan of an animal. This process is called insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1/daf-2 signaling pathway and it is present in many organisms including worms and mice. The regulation of this pathway takes place in adulthood. In worms, the insulin-signaling pathway negatively regulates a transcription factor called DAF-16, which ultimately positively and negatively regulates transcription of different genes. The regulation of lifespan by an insulin-like signaling cascade is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism. It has also been demonstrated in flies and mice. Scientists have also found that the regulation of DAF-16 activity is modulated by different factors in worms, including the JNK signaling pathway, the SIR-2.1 deacetylase, and HSF-1, LIN-14, and SMK-1 in the nucleus. In many organisms, the rate of aging is tied to reproduction. In worms, germline proliferation produces a signal that negatively regulates lifespan, while the somatic gonad promotes lifespan extension. Caloric restriction (CR) also extends lifespan across species including yeast, worms, flies, and mice. Scientists have found that in flies, imposing CR at any time can increase lifespan. Perturbations in mitochondrial function have been shown to increase lifespan in worms. However, mutations in the ubiquinone biosynthesis gene clk-1 do not further increase the longevity phenotype from CR. The mechanism of longevity induced by defective mitochondria is thought to occur during development, as previous attempts to use RNA interference (RNAi) to inhibit mitochondrial function in adults have not been shown to increase lifespan. Recent genome-wide RNAi screens for increased lifespan have identified ∼100 potential regulators of lifespan in worms from diverse cellular pathways, many of which are evolutionarily conserved. However, genes essential for viability are underrepresented in genome-wide RNAi screens for postdevelopmental phenotypes such as aging, unless these genes are inactivated after their required developmental roles. Here, scientists report 64 genes that, when inactivated postdevelopmentally by RNAi, increase adult lifespan. They also report the enhanced survival phenotype of the animals arrested during development by these essential gene inactivations.
Vertebrates have limited ability to regenerate complex structures. Teleost fish and urodele amphibians, however, can regenerate major appendages, such as limbs, spinal cord, and heart. Previous studies of appendage regeneration identified three phases: wound healing, blastema formation, and regenerative outgrowth and patterning. After an amputation injury, exposed stump tissue is rapidly covered by a sheet of epithelial cells, a process known as wound epithelialization. This epithelium matures into a structure known as the wound or regeneration epidermis and expresses markers of developmental signaling pathways. Factors such as Fgf20a and igf2b are induced in mesenchymal cells within hours of fin amputation and are required for formation of the regeneration epidermis and subsequent bone regeneration. However, the mechanisms by which these pathways define the morphology and signaling activities of the regeneration epidermis are not fully understood. In this study, we used forward genetics to identify a critical role for Laminin beta 1a (lamb1a) in zebrafish fin regeneration. Lamb1a is induced upon fin amputation in the basal layer of the wound epithelium and is required to establish polarity in basal epithelial cells, induce and maintain basal epithelial markers, localize receptors for signaling, and align regenerating osteoblasts. Lamb1a induction is dependent on Fgf signaling, both immediately after amputation and throughout regeneration. Therefore, Lamb1a is a critical node between growth factor signals and formation of the regeneration epidermis in an amputated vertebrate appendage.
Linear mixed models (LMMs) have recently emerged as a useful alternative to principal component analysis (PCA) for adjusting for population substructure in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). These models build upon previous work in animal breeding and human genetics to include a genetic effect of interest as a fixed effect in a regression model, with an additional random effect to model genetic correlation between individuals. While these methods were originally proposed for pedigrees with known relationships, they can also be used with samples of unknown or uncertain relationship, such as apparently unrelated individuals who may nevertheless display distant levels of common ancestry. The genetic relationship between all pairs of individuals is estimated based on genome-wide genotype data, rather than being fixed at their known theoretical values. Several approximations have been developed to construct tests of fixed SNP effects of interest in the LMM, including MERLIN, GenABEL, EMMAX, TASSEL, FaST-LMM, and Mendel. These software packages can generate p-values for each SNP in the genome-wide association study. A limited comparison of several LMM implementations was performed on real and simulated data from the Genetic Analysis Workshop 18 (GAW18), where the LMM implementations performed rather similarly in terms of association test statistics and p-values achieved. However, a more comprehensive comparison of LMM approaches, and a formal investigation of power and type 1 error, has not been performed until now. Here, we compare the LMM approaches to family-based approaches and alternative previously-proposed approaches based on extending standard case/control tests. We applied these approaches to real and simulated data from a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3636 individuals. We compare the approaches via application to real and simulated data derived from a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3636 individuals. We investigate the sensitivity to various methodological details (such as whether an LMM approach is used, and, if so, whether an exact method or an approximation is used) and the success (or otherwise) of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error-rate in both real and simulated data (into which artificial simulated disease loci have been inserted).
Chagas disease is a potentially deadly disease caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi. The parasite is found in the blood of infected animals, and can be transmitted to humans through a mosquito bite or contaminated blood. Once inside the human body, the parasite goes through two stages of development: the amastigote stage, where it develops inside cells, and the trypomastigote stage, where it is released from cells and can infect other cells. To find new treatments for Chagas disease, researchers have been using a genetically modified version of the T. cruzi parasite that can be easily detected and tracked. By testing different compounds against this parasite, researchers have discovered three new drugs that can stop the parasite from multiplying inside cells. These drugs are effective in very low doses and have low toxicity for mammalian cells. These findings are very exciting and could lead to new treatments for Chagas disease.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a disfiguring and disabling tropical disease caused by parasitic worms. LF affects more than 120 million people worldwide, and the World Health Organization has set a goal of eliminating the disease by 2020. To achieve this goal, mass drug administration (MDA) programs have been implemented in many countries to reduce the infection rate. However, MDA has some limitations. It requires repeated treatments over several years and has high costs. Additionally, MDA can be inconvenient for patients and health workers. To address these limitations, a new diagnostic tool called "Backpack PCR" has been developed. It uses molecular xenomonitoring (MX) to detect parasites in mosquitoes that transmit the disease. This tool uses a test strip-based methodology that is easy to use and can be done at the point of collection. This makes it possible to monitor changing infection rates in real-time during MDA programs. It also makes it possible to determine when MDA can be stopped. The "Backpack PCR" tool has the potential to be used in many other tropical disease control and elimination programs. It could be used to detect other parasites that are transmitted by mosquitoes, such as malaria and dengue. It could also be used to detect other diseases that are transmitted by other vectors, such as ticks and lice.
Elastomeric proteins have many important biological functions, such as providing extensibility and elastic recoil. They are self-assembling and their properties can be modified to be useful in tissue engineering. Elastomeric proteins such as elastin, resilin, abductin, spider dragline silks, and wheat gluten have evolved independently and have different architectures. Scientists have studied how the arrangement of elastomeric and cross-linking elements affects the self-assembly and mechanical properties of these proteins. They have done this by using a modified Diffusion-Limited Aggregation (DLA) algorithm to simulate the self-assembly of elastomeric proteins. DLA is a model that has been used to study other biological processes such as collagen fibrillogenesis and diatom morphogenesis. The results from these simulations have given insights into the relationships between elastomeric domains and cross-linking domains, which helps guide the rational design of new elastomeric-peptides.
A recent paper looked at Ebola viruses, which cause dangerous and deadly diseases. The paper is about how these viruses make their proteins. Ebola viruses have a special piece of genetic material (RNA) that helps them make their proteins. This RNA has a specific code that tells the cells what proteins to make. However, this code can be changed to make different proteins. The paper explains how these changes affect the proteins that the viruses make.
The study by [Authors] aimed to investigate the distribution and nature of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in the human genome. DSBs can lead to chromosomal damage and cancer, and are known to be more prevalent in certain regions of the genome. The study used deep sequencing to map DSBs in human chromosomes from cultured HEK 293T cells. The results indicate that DSBs are not randomly distributed and are mainly located within 50-250 kb “forum domains” that are protected from damage. The study also suggests that some forum domains contain coordinately expressed gene clusters, suggesting novel regulation of transcription within large genomic regions defined by DSB hotspots. The authors suggest that the mapped breaks could correspond to fragile sites in human chromosomes and that their technique can be used to study fragile sites in many types of human cells.
Trypanosomatids are uniflagellated protists that can infect plants, invertebrates and vertebrates, including humans. These parasites can have monoxenous or heteroxenous life cycles. Monoxenous trypanosomatids are thought to only infect insects, but have recently been found to have heteroxenous life cycles. Trypanosomes are a group of heteroxenous parasites that infect vertebrates, including humans, and are transmitted by blood-sucking vectors. The study looked at the diversity of trypanosomatids in bats in two areas in the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro. One area is Guapiaçu Ecological Reserve, which is more preserved and larger, and the other is Fiocruz Atlantic Forest Biological Station, which is smaller and more degraded. The study found that the diversity of trypanosomatids varies according to the local chiropterofauna, which is modulated by the level of preservation of the habitat.
This study aims to determine the prevalence of 37 different known and neglected tick-borne bacterial and parasitic pathogens, and co-infection levels in adult female ticks. Female ticks have had an additional blood meal compared to nymphs, and are more likely to be infected and co-infected. Additionally, this study aims to determine the presence of four suspected or known bacterial tick symbionts in parallel, as they may affect the replication and survival of pathogens and ticks. The study used a novel high-throughput method to identify these pathogens in a single sample. The results showed that the most common tick-borne pathogen in adult female ticks was Babesia microti, and the most common co-infection was with Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Babesia microti. The study also identified Spiroplasma spp., Wolbachia sp., and Midichloria mitochondrii in adult female ticks.
This article is about a type of gene regulation that happens in stem cells called hematopoietic stem cells, which can make different types of blood cells. There are two main genes that determine which type of blood cell is made: PU.1 and GATA-1. These genes are both turned on at the same time, but they turn each other off. They can also turn each other on in a process called priming. This means that the stem cell can make either type of blood cell, but it can only do it once. This process is important for making different types of blood cells.
Enterococcus faecalis is a common bacterium found in the digestive system of humans. It has been proposed to be involved in the development of inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer. Infections caused by Enterococcus faecalis can be difficult to treat because of their resistance to antibiotics. The organism's ability to evade the immune system is one factor that contributes to its infections. Enterococcus faecalis has an intrinsic resistance to lysozyme, a key component of the innate immune system. This resistance is caused by several mechanisms, including the modification of peptidoglycan by OatA and PgdA, the alanylation of teichoic acids by DltA, and the control of pgdA expression by SigV. In this study, the authors used a quadruple mutant of Enterococcus faecalis that lacked the oatA, pgdA, dltA, and sigV genes to identify additional genes that contribute to resistance to lysozyme and virulence. They found that several genes involved in the decoration of the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen are essential for resistance to effectors of the innate immune system and for virulence. These findings suggest that these genes may be targets for new treatments against infections caused by Enterococcus faecalis.
The goal of the study is to develop a new computational model to integrate various types of high-throughput genomic data to identify important regulatory relationships between transcription factors (TF), miRNAs, and mRNAs in cancer. The study proposes a two-stage regression framework, called RACER, that first infers sample-specific TF activities from ENCODE ChIP-seq data, and then uses these estimated TF activities to infer miRNA/TF-gene regulatory relationships across samples. The study validates the proposed RACER model by comparing it with other alternative models and shows that RACER performs better in predicting gene expression and identifying known or confidence TF/miRNA-gene interactions. The study also identifies a novel role of a recently identified miRNA, hsa-miR-548p, in AML pathogenesis by identifying its significant target gene enrichments for leukemia-related pathway and its inferred interaction with another prominent feature regulator, YY1. The study also identifies a potential prognostic marker, C-Fos, using the inferred TF activities.
RNA-mediated silencing mechanisms control how genes are expressed in different organisms at different levels. These mechanisms are highly conserved in eukaryotes, including plants, animals, fungi, and other organisms. In fungi, there are two major RNA silencing pathways: the quelling and the meiotic silencing by unpaired DNA (MSUD) pathways. These pathways are effective in protecting the fungal genome during asexual and sexual development. Fungal RNA silencing pathways have been proposed to be involved in pathogenicity, development, and antiviral defense. Mycoviruses, or fungal viruses, are widespread in fungi and can be classified into different groups, such as Totiviridae, Partititiviridae, Chrysoviridae, Hypoviridae, Endornaviridae, ( + ) ssRNA, and ( - ) ssRNA. Mycoviruses can be transmitted vertically by spores or horizontally by hyphal anastomosis. Most mycoviral infections are associated with cryptic (non-symptomatic) and latent (expressed under specific conditions) infections, but some mycoviruses can cause debilitating phenotypes in their host, making them potential tools for the control of fungal plant pathogens. In Colletotrichum higginsianum, a hemibiotrophic fungus that infects plants of the Brassicaceae family, including Arabidopsis thaliana, RNA silencing plays a critical role in maintaining low levels of accumulation of a novel dsRNA virus, designated as ChNRV1. Production of viral small RNAs is dependent on ChDCL1, and loading into ChAGO1 demonstrates a strong preference for 21-nt, 5’U sequences.
Meiosis is a special type of cell division that results in haploid cells, which are half the number of chromosomes as the parent cell. Meiosis involves chromosome pairing, recombination, and segregation, which all rely on the fidelity of chromosome interactions. These interactions are established through the formation and repair of programmed double-strand breaks (DSBs) in the DNA, which are repaired through two pathways. In meiotic prophase I, three waves of H2AX phosphorylation occur, which are all initiated and expanded in different ways than in somatic cells. The third wave is important for meiotic sex chromosome inactivation (MSCI), which is a process where the unsynapsed regions of the sex chromosomes are silenced to prevent them from being passed on to offspring. MSCI is regulated by a protein called MDC1, which recruits ATR for H2AX phosphorylation and γH2AX signal expansion. However, the spreading of H2AX phosphorylation in leptotene and zygotene spermatocytes is unaltered in Mdc1-/- spermatocytes, and is therefore regulated by unknown mechanisms. In this study, researchers used gene knockout technology to remove the gene for MOF, a major histone acetyltransferase, from male germ cells. They found that MOF is involved in the expansion of chromatin-wide H2AX phosphorylation in leptonema and zygonema, and also in MDC1 recruitment and MSCI in pachytene spermatocytes. Without MOF, XY-H2AX phosphorylation expansion was absent, and RAD51 foci persisted in Mof cKO spermatocytes until diplonema, resulting in a significant reduction in crossover markers and chiasma formation. These results highlight novel roles for MOF in meiosis, including the expansion of different waves of H2AX phosphorylation, efficient DSB repair, and the formation of crossovers during male meiosis.
In this study, the authors are trying to understand how HTLV-1 infection affects human T-cell development. They do this by infecting "Human Immune System" (HIS) mice with HTLV-1 and then observing how human T-cell development is affected. They also looked at how the protein Tax, which is made by HTLV-1, affects T-cell development. They found that HTLV-1 infection caused a lot of problems with T-cell development, and Tax protein also seemed to be involved in these problems. They also saw that some of the problems that occur in people with ATL (a type of leukemia that is caused by HTLV-1) also happened in the infected mice. This animal model might be useful for understanding more about the early stages of the leukemogenic process caused by HTLV-1.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by tiny worms that live in the veins around the intestine or urinary bladder. These worms release eggs in the stool or urine, and when humans come into contact with contaminated fresh water, they can become infected. The World Health Organization estimates that over 249 million people need treatment for schistosomiasis every year. In Sudan, both the urogenital and intestinal forms of schistosomiasis are prevalent, with the dominant form being urogenital. The Blue Nile Health Project was implemented in the 1970s to control schistosomiasis, malaria, and diarrheal diseases, but there have been no further integrated programs to control schistosomiasis in Sudan since then. In 2000, the Sudanese government established a national schistosomiasis control program, and as part of this program, a schistosomiasis control project was supported by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) in Al Jabalain locality in the White Nile State of Sudan. This project included mass chemotherapy, health education, construction of a drinking water supply facility, provision of laboratory equipment, dispatch of Korean experts to Sudan, and follow-up evaluation. The present study evaluates the outcomes of praziquantel administration and health education for students and residents, as well as the impact of a filtered drinking water supply facility at Al Hidaib village.
The article describes a study on the matrix (M) protein of Nipah virus (NiV), which is responsible for outbreaks of severe encephalitis in humans and animals. Previous research has shown that NiV-M can form viral-like particles (VLPs) that contain all of the necessary proteins for the virus to replicate. The study found that NiV-M translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus at early stages of infection, before moving back to the plasma membrane. This movement is necessary for the virus to assemble and release virions, which are the infectious particles that spread the virus from one cell to another. The study suggests that NiV-M may have evolved to use cellular pathways to move between the nucleus and cytoplasm, and that this movement is essential for the virus to replicate.
This paper describes the cell entry process of the poliovirus, a nonenveloped virus that causes poliomyelitis. The virion binds to a protein on the surface of cells called PVR, which causes the virion to change shape and expose peptides that insert into cellular membranes. The virus then anchors to the cell membrane and forms channels and pores in planar membranes. The genome is then released from the virus into the cell cytoplasm. The exact pathway by which the genome is released is unknown, but it appears to be an energy-dependent process that does not require clathrin, caveolin, flotillin, or microtubules. This paper also discusses the challenges of studying viral entry pathways, including the high particle-to-plaque forming unit (pfu) ratio of animal viruses and the difficulty of distinguishing between productive and nonproductive pathways.
Dengue fever is a significant health problem in tropical and sub-tropical regions, including Cambodia where it is particularly prevalent among children. Over the past decade, dengue has increased in prevalence and in 2007, there was an especially deadly epidemic with 34542 cases and 365 deaths. The main control activity of the National Dengue Control Program (NDCP) is the distribution of temephos and insecticide spraying, and health education. However, many people with good knowledge of dengue do not translate this knowledge to practice because they do not understand disease transmission or the methods promoted are flawed. School-based education is an important compliment to community education because it can increase children's knowledge of dengue prevention and control. While health belief and behavioural change models have been used as a basis to develop educational materials, little work has been done on the mode of delivery or effectiveness of routine programs. To address these gaps, this study explored the input, process, and effectiveness of community outreach, HC, and school-based education for dengue control.
Filarial nematodes are a group of parasites that cause many public health problems around the world. To diagnose these infections, doctors use different methods, but none of them are perfect. These methods can be invasive, expensive or have low sensitivity. In this study, the authors looked at whether circulating microRNAs (miRNA) could be used as a new approach for diagnosing these infections. They found several miRNAs in the plasma of dogs infected with Dirofilaria immitis and in the serum of people infected with Onchocerca volvulus. These miRNAs could be used as potential biomarkers to diagnose filarial infections.
This paper is about a family of proteins called Src kinases. These proteins are involved in signaling pathways that regulate cell growth and proliferation. They have the ability to switch between different "states" depending on whether they are in the presence of an intracellular or extracellular signal. The switch between these states is important because it plays a key role in the onset of many human diseases, particularly cancer, making them important targets for therapeutic intervention. The structure of these proteins has been studied using high-resolution crystal structures, which have revealed important details about how they work. However, it has been difficult to fully understand how these proteins dynamically switch from one state to another because the process is transient and it is hard to observe. To address this issue, the authors used a coarse-grained model of a protein called Hck kinase, which is a member of the Src kinase family. This model incorporates two individual experimental structures and allows switching between them. The authors used a "two-state Gō model" to explicitly encode both experimental end-point structures in the energy function. They then simulated the transition process and mapped the trajectories onto a two-dimensional free energy landscape, a detailed structural network, and a discrete Markov model. The results of these simulations suggest that there are two parallel pathways for the conformational switching process, and that one of these pathways is coupled with local unfolding of the N-lobe of the catalytic domain. Overall, the authors' findings provide new insights into the thermodynamics and kinetics of conformational activation of the catalytic domain of Src kinases.
The paper discusses the phenomenon of postzygotic lethality in plants, which is the death of the resulting offspring when two individuals of different ploidy (number of sets of chromosomes) are crossed. This can occur when a haploid individual (one set of chromosomes) is crossed with a diploid individual (two sets of chromosomes), resulting in an unreduced gamete and the production of a triploid offspring. The triploid offspring are often unable to survive and cause lethality in the F1 generation. This phenomenon can prevent the formation of polyploids and can play a role in speciation.
This paper is about how bats and rodents carry certain bacterial pathogens. There are many different kinds of bats and rodents, and they have a wide range of characteristics, such as their lifespan, size, and eating habits. There is also a large diversity of bacterial pathogens that bats and rodents can carry, and many of these pathogens can be harmful to humans. However, much of the research into these pathogens has focused on viruses, such as Ebola and Marburg viruses, rather than bacteria. This paper aims to look at how these pathogens have evolved over time in relation to their hosts. Specifically, the paper focuses on two types of bacteria, Bartonella and Leptospira, that are known to cause neglected tropical diseases in humans. These bacteria are carried by a wide range of mammals, including bats and rodents. To understand how these pathogens have evolved, researchers looked at the genetic similarities between the bacteria and their hosts. They found that there was a lot of congruence between the two, meaning that the pathogens and their hosts had a lot of similarities in their evolutionary histories. This suggests that these pathogens have been adapted to their hosts over a long period of time. However, there were also some differences in the evolutionary histories between the two, indicating that there were likely instances of the pathogens jumping from one host to another. This is important because it shows how easily these pathogens can spread from their natural hosts to humans, and how quickly they can evolve to better survive in new hosts. Overall, this paper provides valuable insights into how these pathogens have evolved over time and how they have adapted to their hosts. It also highlights the importance of studying these pathogens in order to better understand their potential for causing disease in humans.
The study focuses on the movement of swimming animals like undulatory swimmers, which starts from muscle activation. There are two main issues that need to be understood: (1) how muscle activation leads to the observed deformation kinematics and (2) how deformation kinematics produce movement of the body as a whole. The study discusses how muscle activation, body mass, elastic properties, and interactions with the environment cause the observed deformation of undulatory swimmers. The study proposes an active-passive decomposition framework, in which passive swimming has only passive component of deformation, while active swimming has both active and passive deformation components because muscle activation as well as external fluid forces are present. The study presents a detailed mathematical description of passive motion induced by external vorticies and discusses the different swimming gaits and their optimal conditions for movement. The study also discusses the pathway of power transfer during the swimming cycle and the optimal deformation kinematics for fast swimming.
Scientists have discovered that a parasite called Trypanosoma brucei can change its genetic makeup by combining DNA from different strains. This can create new strains that may have new abilities, such as the ability to infect humans or resist drugs. This happens when the parasite's genes mix during a process called sexual reproduction in tsetse flies, which are the parasite's insect hosts. The parasite's DNA mixes during meiosis, a type of cell division that occurs during sexual reproduction. This creates new strains of parasite that may have different abilities, such as the ability to infect humans or resist drugs. The parasite's genes are stored in something called an expression site, which is like a gene factory. This factory has different parts that work together to make proteins. One of these parts is a gene called SRA, which is important for the parasite to be able to infect humans. The parasite has different versions of SRA in different parts of its gene factory. Scientists found that when the parasite's DNA mixes during sexual reproduction, it creates a new version of SRA that is different from the versions in either of the parent strains. This new version may have different abilities, such as the ability to infect humans or resist drugs.
This article is about a study that used a network theory to describe the complex behavior of a group of cells called islets of Langerhans, which are located in the pancreas and make insulin. These islets are made up of beta cells, which make insulin. When beta cells don't work properly or die, it can cause diabetes. The study found that the cells in the islets are electrically connected to each other and that this electrical connection helps to coordinate the behavior of the islet. The study also found that changes in the behavior of one cell can affect the behavior of the whole islet.
We introduce a standard model for gene transcription networks that includes protein production, decay, and reversible binding reactions between transcription factors (TFs) and promoter sites. We call a transcriptional component that takes a number of TFs as inputs and produces a single TF as an output, a node in a transcription network. We assume that mRNA dynamics occur on a time scale much faster than protein production/decay and neglect them. We simplify our notation by treating gene expression as a one-step process. We write the dynamics of the module as (1) where is the stoichiometry matrix and is the reaction flux vector. We partition into and , representing the reaction flux vectors corresponding to production/decay and binding/unbinding reactions, respectively. We assume that the DNA copy number is conserved. With we obtain (2) which we call the isolated dynamics of a module. Next, we consider a module inserted into a network, which we call the context of the module. We represent all the quantities related to the context with an overbar. We write the dynamics of the species in the module (and ) and in the context (and ) as (3). The upper left block matrix in is zero as DNA is assumed to be a conserved species. We obtain (4), which we call the connected dynamics of a module. We call the retroactivity to the output of the module , encompassing retroactivity applied to the module due to the context of the module. Similarly, we call the retroactivity to the input of a module , representing retroactivity originating inside the module. The general interconnection of a group of modules can be treated similarly. As an example, we consider a module connected to its context and find that retroactivity applied by the context changes the dynamics of the module significantly. We seek a model that captures the effects of retroactivity , unlike standard regulatory network models of the same dimension based on Hill functions. We want to explicitly describe the change in the dynamics of a module once it is arbitrarily connected to other modules in the network. This model is only a function of measurable biochemical parameters, TF concentrations, and interconnection topology.
Pseudoautosomal regions (PARs) are sections of DNA that are similar between the X and Y (or Z and W) chromosomes. In humans, there are two PARs, PAR1 and PAR2. PAR1 is located at the end of the short arm (Xp) and long arm (Xq) of the X chromosome. It is important for fertility and disease. However, we do not fully understand the biology of PAR1. In this study, the authors built a genetic map of PAR1 using data from over 14,000 sperm from 383 men. They also looked at the role of PRDM9, a protein that helps determine where recombination happens on autosomes, in PAR1. The authors found that recombination happens at specific locations in PAR1, and that PRDM9 does not seem to play a role in specifying where recombination happens in this region. The genetic map will be useful for medical genetics research, and the authors also used it to learn more about the evolution of recombination in PAR1.
Scientists discovered that a certain type of proteins called histone methyltransferases can add methyl groups to the tails of histone proteins in the DNA of eukaryotic cells. This helps to regulate the expression of genes. Scientists also found that another type of proteins, called histone demethylases, can remove these methyl groups. They also discovered that one specific type of histone demethylase, called JMJD2A, can help to regulate the expression of genes involved in the process of muscle cells differentiating into myotubes. This is important for the development of skeletal muscles in our bodies.
Guinea Worm Disease (GWD) is a parasitic disease caused by the parasitic worm Dracunculus medinensis . This disease is spread by tiny copepods in contaminated water sources. It is estimated that over 3 million people were infected with GWD in 1986 and it was spread across 21 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. During the early years of the disease, death due to tetanus was not uncommon. The absence of a known cure or vaccine makes it difficult for affected people to seek medical care. However, the disease can be prevented. The Global Programme to Eradicate Guinea Worm Disease (GWEP) was established in 1986 with the goal of eliminating the disease globally. The programme has successfully reduced the number of cases by 99.9% and there are now only 25 cases reported in four countries. The eradication strategy relies on identifying all villages with endemic transmission and interrupting transmission in each village. The ICCDE and WHO work together to assess the quality of surveillance during a three-year pre-certification period. The programme has certified 198 countries, territories and areas and the latest country to attain certification was Ghana in January 2015. To achieve global certification of GWD eradication, WHO must formally certify every individual country, even if no transmission has ever been recorded in that particular country. TCC has responsibility for assisting national GWEPs to interrupt transmission and supporting the four remaining endemic countries to prepare for certification. Other partners, such as UNICEF and Water Aid, have focussed on providing safe, clean water.
Lyme disease is caused by bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. These bacteria can spread through the blood and infect many different parts of the body. To survive and grow in the body, these bacteria need to avoid the body's immune system. The immune system has a special system called complement that helps defend the body against infection. The complement system is made up of many different proteins that work together to fight infection. Borrelia burgdorferi have proteins that help them avoid the complement system. Researchers have now found out that these proteins work by binding to a protein called C1r. The researchers made a map of how the proteins work and found that they are very similar. They also made mutations to see how the proteins work and found that the proteins need the SP domain to bind to C1r. These findings help us understand how Borrelia burgdorferi avoid the immune system and make it harder to treat Lyme disease.
Candida albicans is a common fungus that can cause serious infections. It can exist as a harmless commensal in healthy people, but it can also become an opportunistic pathogen that causes diseases ranging from mild infections like thrush to life-threatening infections in immunocompromised patients. The ability of C. albicans to grow as budding yeast or hyphal forms is key to its pathogenicity. When growing at low densities on mucosal surfaces, C. albicans mostly exists as a commensal and is tolerated by the host immune system. However, when growing as hyphae, it invades and damages tissues. The hyphal form of C. albicans is also a key part of the structure of biofilms, which are communities of fungal cells that adhere to each other and to surfaces. The ability of C. albicans to switch from budding yeast to hyphal form is regulated by a complex set of proteins and pathways. In this study, the authors searched for proteins that show a hyphal-specific pattern of phosphorylation and found that the fork-head family transcription factor Fkh2 changes its phosphorylation profile dramatically within five minutes of hyphal induction. They then investigated the mechanism of this change and found that it is mediated by two kinases: Cdc28-Ccn1/Cln3 and Cbk1-Mob2. The shift in phosphorylation specifically activates Fkh2 to promote the expression of genes required for pathogenic processes in addition to its normal general housekeeping function. This study provides new insights into the regulation of hyphal growth in C. albicans and the role of phosphorylation in its pathogenicity.
Scientists are trying to find new drugs to treat sleeping sickness, a disease caused by a parasite that affects 20 million people worldwide. They have found that the parasite needs certain chemicals to make DNA, RNA and sugar molecules. One of these chemicals is called uracil. The parasite gets uracil from the food that people eat. However, the parasite can also make uracil on its own. Scientists have found that the parasite needs to make uracil in order to grow. They have also found that uracil is very important for the parasite to be able to survive inside animals. They have tested different chemicals to see if they can stop the parasite from making uracil. They have found that one chemical, called UMP synthase, is very important for the parasite to be able to survive inside animals. They have also found that another chemical, called UPP, helps the parasite to make uracil. Scientists are now trying to find new drugs that will stop the parasite from making these chemicals.
Shine-Dalgarno (SD) sequences are found in the 5′ untranslated regions of prokaryotic messenger RNAs and are important for translation initiation. They act as ribosome-binding sites by recognizing a complementary sequence motif at the 3′ end of the 16S ribosomal RNA via base pairing. These sequences are highly conserved across the prokaryotic kingdom and are even present in some cell organelles that evolved from prokaryotes more than a billion years ago. However, an alternative mechanism of translation initiation exists that is independent of the presence of an SD sequence. Even some highly translated mRNAs in bacteria lack a recognizable SD motif. Recent analyses have indicated that SD-independent translation is more widespread than previously appreciated. We have discovered that mRNAs lacking an SD sequence exhibit a pronounced minimum in mRNA secondary structure at the translational start codon, suggesting that start codon accessibility is the major factor in SD-independent translation initiation. We have confirmed experimentally that local RNA unfoldedness is necessary and sufficient for initiation of protein biosynthesis in the absence of an SD sequence.
This article describes the findings of a study that followed 8,311 people who were treated for their first episode of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) with 20 mg/kg intravenous liposomal amphotericin B. The aim of the study was to describe the characteristics of people who developed post-Kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) after being treated for VL. The study found that PKDL developed in 10.4% of people treated with amphotericin B. Although PKDL has been described in people who were treated for VL with different types of treatments, the study is the largest to describe the characteristics of people who developed PKDL after being treated with amphotericin B. The findings of the study will help healthcare professionals better understand PKDL and provide better care to patients with VL.
Chagas disease is a disease caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, which is transmitted to humans through a blood-sucking bug called Triatoma infestans. Chagas disease affects various parts of the body, including the heart, digestive system, and nervous system. Current strategies for controlling the disease involve screening blood donors and suppressing the vector, T. infestans. However, since T. infestans is found mainly in poor areas of South America where resources for vector control are limited, it is important to optimize vector control strategies. To optimize vector control strategies, it is necessary to understand the spatial and temporal dynamics of T. infestans populations. Researchers have been studying T. infestans populations in northwest Argentina since the 1990s, and they have found that these populations are structured as a network of interacting local populations. The researchers used metapopulation theory to analyze the data and estimate the parameters driving extinction and establishment rates of local populations. They found that the rates of establishment of T. infestans populations are influenced by the distance from existing populations, seasonality, and insecticide spraying. The study demonstrates how knowledge about a complex metapopulation system can be gained by fitting a range of competing models.
Polyomaviruses are a family of small, non-enveloped DNA viruses that infect humans and induce cancer in some cases. These viruses have a simple RNA structure that is believed to be involved in their infection process. There are several species of polyomaviruses that can infect humans, and the natural host of the type species of this virus family is the rhesus macaque monkey. Simian virus 40 (SV40) is the type species of the virus family, and it has been widely used as a model cancer virus in previous studies. In this study, researchers aim to investigate the natural history of acute and persistent infections by SV40 in Syrian golden hamsters. Specifically, they want to determine the tissues that can be infected by SV40, the sites of long-term persistence, the influence of SV40 genetic differences on the infection patterns in vivo, and the role of viral miRNA in tumor induction. The researchers will use SV40 strains with different RRs, including simple and complex RRs, and strains with and without viral miRNA, to test their hypotheses. The findings of this study will provide insights into the pathogenesis of polyomaviruses and their response to the host, which will help guide the development of diagnostics, therapeutics, and preventive measures.
Positive Darwinian selection is a powerful force in shaping species over time. While the debate over whether positive selection or neutral drift plays a bigger role in evolution has largely been settled, interest has shifted to understanding the specific genes affected by positive selection, how strong the effects were, when the selection occurred, and what the functional consequences were. Methods for detecting positive selection have been developed, including phylogenetic methods that use patterns of substitutions between species, and population genetic methods that rely on patterns of intraspecies polymorphism. Several genome-wide scans for positive selection on protein-coding genes have been conducted, identifying many new genes with strong evidence of positive selection, and revealing differences in the prevalence of selection among different lineages and classes of genes. A comprehensive genome-wide scan for positive selection in six eutherian mammalian genomes has been conducted, using high-coverage, high-quality sequence assemblies from human, chimpanzee, macaque, mouse, rat, and dog. More than 400 genes were identified that showed strong signatures of positive selection during mammalian evolution. The functional roles, selection histories, and expression patterns of these genes were examined.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is a bacterium that can cause various infections, from relatively harmless skin conditions to deadly systemic infections. When S. aureus forms a biofilm on host tissues or implanted materials, it becomes resistant to the host immune response and chemotherapies, leading to chronic infections. Biofilms are complex structures made of proteins, polysaccharides, extracellular DNA, and other environmental factors. Enzymes that digest these matrix components can break down biofilms and make detached cells more susceptible to antimicrobials. However, the composition of the biofilm matrix can vary greatly depending on the strain, physiological state, and nutrient availability. In this study, the authors found that the composition of the biofilm matrix changes depending on the growth media used. They discovered an extracellular fibril structure in S. aureus biofilms grown in a non-standard rich media. These fibers share morphological and biophysical characteristics with functional bacterial amyloids such as curli in Escherichia coli biofilms. Further analysis revealed that these fibrils are composed of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs). Mutants that cannot produce PSMs formed biofilms that are susceptible to disassembly by enzymatic degradation and mechanical stress. The authors found that PSMs are surfactant-like peptides that promote biofilm disassembly, exhibit antimicrobial activity, and hinder host immune response. They also found that PSM peptides can form amyloid-like fibers, which abrogate the biofilm disassembly activity of monomeric PSM peptides. The authors suggest that PSMs can modulate biofilm disassembly using amyloid-like aggregation as a control point for their activity. Their findings provide new insights into the role of PSMs in biofilm formation and could lead to new approaches for treating persistent biofilm-associated infections.
Chagas disease is a neglected illness that affects over 6 million people worldwide, mainly in Latin America where the disease is endemic. The disease is caused by a protozoan parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi and can lead to life-threatening cardiac and/or digestive symptoms if not treated. There are currently two drugs available to treat Chagas disease, but their efficacy is difficult to evaluate and treatment success is controversial. Treatment side effects are also a concern. Several techniques have been proposed to evaluate treatment efficacy, including serology tests and detection of the parasite in blood by PCR. However, PCR results do not necessarily mean the absence of infection and serology tests can be used to monitor the early impact of treatment. The aim of this study was to characterize serological profiles of T. cruzi -infected patients using an extended version of the MultiCruzi assay. By measuring diversity of antibodies, the study aimed to identify a surrogate antibody biomarker that could be sensitive and specific for monitoring parasite persistence regardless of PCR results. The study used a large sample collection from the SaMi-Trop cohort, including treated and untreated groups, and all tested by PCR. The results of this study could help improve patient management and evaluation of efficacy of new drugs under development.
The chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a virus that is transmitted by mosquitoes and can cause fever, rash, arthralgia, and myalgia. In 2013, an Asian lineage strain of CHIKV caused an outbreak in the Americas. The chronic phase of CHIKV disease, which can last for months or years, is characterized by inflammation and immune system activation. Researchers have been trying to identify predictive markers for CHIKV-induced chronic arthralgia, but they have not been successful. There is evidence that CHIKV antigen may persist chronically in tissues, and non-infectious CHIKV RNA has been detected by RT-qPCR in animal models and some human samples. In this study, researchers engineered a recombinant CHIKV infectious cDNA clone that encodes for Cre recombinase. This virus infected and replicated in myoblasts and fibroblasts and induced acute arthritis in mice. Importantly, this virus established chronic disease with persistence of viral RNA occurring for weeks after the acute infection. By combining this Cre expressing virus with reporter mice, researchers identified infection-marked cells in the chronic phase of disease and showed that these cells were enriched for persistent CHIKV RNA. This system provides a powerful tool to explore chronic CHIKV pathogenesis and the host determinants that contribute to disease.
The brain is made up of billions of neurons that communicate with each other to make our bodies move and think. Scientists have developed methods to understand how these neurons work together. These methods take information from the activity of many neurons and reduce it to a smaller number of dimensions, allowing for easier analysis. However, it is unclear how the results of these methods relate to the underlying network structure. To understand this relationship, researchers analyzed population activity from in vivo recordings and spiking network models. They found that the number of neurons and trials used in the recordings and models can affect the results of dimensionality reduction. They also found that the results of dimensionality reduction from the spiking network models could be used to better understand the underlying network structure. These findings suggest that dimensionality reduction can be used to understand how neurons work together and how they relate to the underlying network structure.
This study investigates the role of the molecule 2-aminoacetophenone (2-AA) produced by the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, in causing chronic infection. The molecule is excreted by P. aeruginosa and has a sweet "grape-like" odor in culture and infected tissues. It has been proposed as a biomarker for colonization of burn wounds and chronic infection in cystic fibrosis patients. The study found that 2-AA signals changes in P. aeruginosa that favor chronic infection. Ex vivo and animal studies were conducted to investigate the immunomodulatory role of 2-AA. The study found that 2-AA modulates inflammatory processes and activates immune effectors, but also impairs the ability of the mice to clear the infection. This suggests that 2-AA may favor the long-term presence of P. aeruginosa in the host.
This article is about a type of genetic element called a "retroelement" that is found in many different organisms, including mammals. These elements can insert themselves into a host genome, which can lead to the inactivation of nearby genes or changes in their expression. These elements can also create hazards by increasing the risk of chromosomal rearrangements, which can have pathological consequences. The article highlights the fact that most instances of retroelement insertion are generally not beneficial, but they can sometimes create new genes that are beneficial to the host. One example of this is the "syncytin" gene in eutherian mammals, which is derived from an ancient retrovirus and has been "domesticated" to function in placental development. The article also discusses the "Fv1" gene, which is another domesticated gene that functions in defending against retroviruses. The authors note that while domesticated genes like syncytin and Fv1 are generally beneficial to their hosts, some instances of domestication can lead to deleterious consequences. The article also discusses the L1TD1 gene, which is a non-LTR retroposon that has been domesticated and exapted into a coding gene. The authors note that while L1TD1 is involved in pluripotency maintenance in human ES cells, its evolutionary history and selective pressures in mammals are still not well understood.
The article describes the role of YbeY, a bacterial ribonuclease found in most sequenced bacteria, including uropathogenic Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Vibrio cholerae. The article highlights that YbeY plays a crucial role in ribosome processing and ribosome biogenesis, and that it is essential for the growth and survival of bacteria. The article also mentions the role of YbeY in regulating gene expression through small RNA molecules and in regulating virulence factors in pathogenic bacteria.
This study looks at how cells use gene expression to cope with their environment and develop. These cells use transcription factors, which are proteins that regulate the expression of their target genes, to control the process. The interconnectedness of these transcription factors forms a network. Scientists have used tools from network science to study these networks and have found that certain topological features, such as the assortativity of the network, influence the robustness of the network to genetic perturbation. The assortativity refers to the tendency for nodes with similar numbers of connections to themselves be connected. The study uses 41 human cell-specific transcription factor networks and finds that the networks have a unique assortativity signature that affects their robustness to genetic perturbation. The study also creates artificial signatures to further understand how the four different components of assortativity contribute to phenotypic robustness.
This study aimed to understand how specific subpopulations of cortical neurons process sensory information. The researchers conducted an experiment on adult rats' barrel cortex, using large-scale multi-electrode arrays to record the activity of hundreds of neurons. The researchers studied how well individual neurons and groups of neurons encoded sensory stimuli, and they found that the inhibitory interneurons encoded more information and had less redundancy than excitatory neurons. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms used by cortical inhibitory interneurons to process sensory information.
In 1945, von Neumann established the foundations of computer logic architectures, which included the ALU (arithmetic logic unit), a digital-like circuit that performs arithmetic and logic operations over bits of information. However, with the emergence of unconventional modes of computation, it is worth considering whether ALUs can be implemented in a more simple way, such as genetically in a single living cell. A genetic half adder has been engineered in mammalian and bacterial cells using regulatory proteins. However, these designs are limited in number and do not allow an easy computational design of de novo sequences. In recent years, RNA has been exploited as an ideal substrate to engineer gene expression programs that robustly run in vivo. Non-coding RNAs and chimeric RNA molecules that transduce molecular signals have been engineered to control gene expression. In this work, we engineered a genetic half adder in E. coli centered on regulatory RNAs. We focused on riboregulators of translation initiation, and the whole system relies on TF-mediated regulation. A genetic half adder allows mounting a common response against two different molecules acting individually and a new response when they act together. This would be useful, for instance, in scenarios in which there is synergy between molecules.
Nucleotidases are a type of enzyme that help regulate the levels of certain chemicals called nucleotides in cells. These enzymes are found in many parts of the body, including the heart, skeletal muscle, and brain. One type of nucleotidase, called cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase II (cN-II), is important for maintaining the right levels of certain chemicals called nucleotides. cN-II is located in the cells of many different tissues, including the brain, heart, and liver. It is also involved in the way that the body responds to certain medications. The goal of this study was to find out more about how cN-II works and how it might be used in medicine.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are diseases that affect the brain and cause it to shrink. They can happen in sheep (scrapie), cows (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or BSE), or humans (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or CJD). TSEs happen when a normal protein in the brain (PrPc) changes into an abnormal form (PrPSc), which accumulates in the brain. It is thought that PrPSc is the only way to detect TSEs. However, TSEs have been found in people without detectable PrPSc in their brains. Ten years ago, a new type of CJD was discovered. It was caused by a person eating food contaminated with BSE. To prevent people from getting TSEs, steps have been taken to make sure that food producers don't have TSE and that infected materials don't end up in food. However, it was thought that TSEs could not happen in milk from animals with TSEs. But now, a study has shown that PrPSc can accumulate in the mammary glands of scrapie-infected sheep and that colostrum and milk from those sheep can transmit the disease to lambs. This raises new concerns about whether milk from scrapie-infected sheep can be safe for people to drink.
Ebola virus ( EBOV ) causes a serious illness in humans, known as Ebola virus disease ( EVD ). Symptoms include fever, hemorrhage, muscle pain, and diarrhea. Although there are some treatments being developed, the main form of treatment is currently symptomatic and supportive care. The case fatality rate ( CFR ) of the disease ranges from 24% to 89%. Bats are considered the natural hosts of the virus, although this is controversial. People can become infected by contact with infected wildlife or through human-to-human transmission by contact with body fluids such as blood and watery stools. In March 2014, an outbreak of EVD was reported in Guinea and spread to neighboring countries in West Africa. By March 30, 2016, the devastating outbreak had affected over 28,000 individuals, resulting in over 11,000 deaths in 10 countries, including Liberia, one of the hardest-hit countries during the outbreak. During the outbreak, suspected, probable, and confirmed EVD cases were reported to national health authorities in Liberia using Microsoft Excel, the Epi-Info Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Application, and the DHIS 2. However, surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned during the outbreak, resulting in inadequate data management including missing and duplicate data. Sick persons were reported from communities via telephone calls to Liberia’s Ebola hotline, and case investigation teams visited and interviewed patients to ascertain whether they were suspected or probable EVD cases. When patients met the definition of suspected or probable cases, they were transferred to Ebola Treatment Units ( ETUs ). There, they were interviewed again to check their status as suspected or probable cases. Blood and oral swab samples from suspected and probable cases were sent to EVD diagnostic laboratories within the country for the detection of EBOV RNA by nucleic acid tests ( NATs ). Samples from dead bodies were also tested. Using data from the diagnostic laboratories, we can distinguish between patients who tested positive for EBOV RNA ( confirmed cases ) and those who tested negative for EBOV RNA ( termed EBOV RNA-negative suspected cases because the data could not differentiate between suspected and probable cases ). Here, we present an analysis of data from the EVD diagnostic laboratories on samples that were tested between April 4, 2014, and March 29, 2015.
Tyrosinase is a copper-containing enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone through hydroxylation and subsequent oxidation reactions. The quinone product is a reactive precursor to synthesize melanin, a pigment found in hair, skin, and other body parts. The active center of tyrosinase has two copper ions, which take the form of Cu (I) –Cu (I) when the enzyme is inactive and Cu (II) –O22-–Cu (II) when it is active. The addition of copper to the complex facilitates the incorporation of two copper ions into tyrosinase, and the resulting Cu (II) –bound tyrosinase is liberated from the complex. The crystal structures of the complex between tyrosinase and its partner protein (the caddie protein) were determined, and the enzyme was shown to have two copper ions in its active center. The caddie protein is necessary for the incorporation of copper ions into the enzyme. The structures of the met1 and met2 forms of Cu (II) –bound tyrosinase complexed with the caddie protein were determined by soaking native crystals in a CuSO4-containing solution. The met2 form had two molecules of oxygen between the copper ions, whereas the met1 form had one molecule. The crystal structures of tyrosinase and its partner protein have been determined at very high resolutions. The results show that the active site of tyrosinase has two copper ions that are surrounded by three histidine residues through the Nε nitrogen atoms. In the crystal structure of the complex, the Tyr98 residue of the caddie protein is present in the active-site pocket of tyrosinase. Until now, despite extensive studies based on the crystal structures of tyrosinase, low-molecular-weight model systems, or computer simulations, its catalytic mechanism has not yet been clearly understood at an atomic level. To understand the catalytic mechanism, in the present study, time-resolved X-ray crystal structures of the complex between tyrosinase and caddie after the addition of a reducing agent under aerobic conditions were analyzed.
Ribosomes are small molecules inside cells that help make proteins. Making these molecules takes a lot of energy and involves many steps. In one of these steps, the RNA polymerase I (Pol I) makes a big molecule called pre-ribosomal RNA (pre-rRNA). This pre-rRNA then combines with many other molecules called ribosomal proteins and small ribonucleoprotein particles (snoRNPs) to form the first two parts of a ribosome. These parts are called the 40S and 60S subunits. The 60S subunit is the part that helps make proteins.
The ability to adapt to a changing world is important for survival. This requires updating our beliefs in response to unexpected events that signal potential environmental change. In reinforcement-learning models, belief updating is driven by prediction errors, which are the difference between predicted and actual outcomes. The learning rate determines the relative influence of recent compared to more historical events on current beliefs. Learning rate should be low in noisy but otherwise static environments, resulting in stable beliefs. In contrast, learning rate should be high in rapidly changing environments, resulting in more flexible beliefs. Neuroimaging studies have identified brain areas associated with belief updating and factors that drive learning rate. These factors include the volatility and uncertainty associated with the task environment and the surprise elicited by an outcome. However, a critical question remains: what role do neuromodulatory systems play in regulating learning rate? Several lines of evidence suggest that norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) play a role in belief updating. NE increases the responsivity of its target neurons to their afferent input, making it well-positioned to regulate learning rate based on environmental change. DA also plays a role in learning-rate regulation, and its neurons respond to novel and unexpected stimuli. Pharmacological manipulations and lesions of the noradrenergic system have been shown to affect reversal learning and attentional-set shifting performance in animals, and correlations between learning rate and pupil size, an indirect index of LC (the main noradrenergic nucleus of the brain) activity, have been found in humans. In the present study, we used a well-established ‘predictive-inference’ task that provides direct measures of prediction error and learning rate on each trial, and we examined trial-by-trial relationships between prediction-error magnitude, P3 amplitude, and learning rate using multilevel mediation analyses. We also examined the relationships between P3 amplitude and two latent variables—capturing the unexpectedness of an outcome and the uncertainty about the outcome-generating process—that together determine learning rate according to a previously established normative model. Finally, we examined the causal effects of a pharmacological manipulation of catecholamine activity on learning rate. Our findings provide converging evidence regarding the role of the catecholamine systems in learning-rate regulation.
In 2015, infectious diseases were responsible for 54.9 million deaths worldwide, with 11.8 million of those deaths due to communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional disorders. Infectious diseases remain a major challenge for humanity in the 21st century due to the discovery of new pathogens, the natural evolution of existing pathogens, the movement and exchange of people and resources around the world, and the difficulty of accurately predicting their appearance and disappearance in different populations. To monitor and respond to infectious diseases, three main strategies of surveillance are currently used: disease-specific surveillance, syndromic surveillance, and event-based surveillance. These strategies use a variety of data sources, including the internet, drug sales reports, and notifiable diseases reports. In order to improve the speed of diagnosis and treatment, a new technology called point-of-care (POC) laboratories has been developed. These laboratories are able to perform rapid diagnostic tests to deliver results quickly and potentially reduce costs. The sub-Saharan African region is a large area with over 1 billion people from 48 different countries. Although there has been significant progress in reducing child deaths in this region, it remains a major cause of death, especially due to malaria, diarrheal diseases, lower respiratory infections, HIV/AIDS, and measles. To improve infectious disease surveillance in this region, the EPIMIC system was developed. This system uses data from two POC-L established in rural Senegal to monitor infectious diseases diagnosed in these laboratories. The implementation of this system allowed for the monitoring of infectious diseases in this area and the potential for early detection of new outbreaks.
Calcium ions play a major role in cellular functions, such as exocytosis, contraction, transcription, and proliferation. Calcium signaling is characterized by transient pulsing dynamics of cytosolic calcium concentration, which are regulated by calcium release from intracellular stores and calcium influx from extracellular media. Gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) allows calcium diffusion driven by a difference in the cytosolic calcium concentration among neighboring cells, leading to calcium wave propagation. However, the effects of cellular architecture on calcium signaling and their functional implications are not well understood. In this study, we investigate architecture-dependent collective calcium signaling in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) using self-assembled capillary-like networks and microengineered hexagonal cell networks. We compare histamine-induced calcium oscillations in the cell networks with individual cells and monolayers to investigate the architecture dependence. We also develop a computational model to elucidate the effects of the number of neighboring cells on collective calcium signaling. Finally, we correlate cytoskeletal reorganization and cell contraction induced by histamine with the calcium oscillation to study the function of collective calcium signaling in different cellular architectures.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the main cause of respiratory tract infections in infants and children worldwide, leading to hospitalizations and reinfections life-long. RSVs have two antigenically distinct groups (A and B) with genetic differences occurring mostly in the attachment glycoprotein G (47% heterogeneity at the amino acid level) and to a lesser degree in the fusion protein F (9%). Heterologous RSV strains cause re-infections, while homologous RSV strains are observed less frequently. However, instances of evolution, such as RSVs with duplications in the G gene, have been reported. A study by Capella et al found that higher concentrations of pre-F and G antibodies were associated with lower clinical disease severity in infants and young children (<2yr). In a previous study, we generated phage display libraries for the RSV surface proteins F and G to elucidate the complete antibody epitope repertoire in serum samples from infants either prior to (<9 months) or after primary and early RSV infection (15–18 months). Primary RSV infection predominantly resulted in an increase of G-specific binding antibodies, with bound phages displaying epitopes spanning most of the ectodomain of RSV-G. In the current study, we evaluated the immunogenicity of several antigenic sites apart from the CCD motif in the G protein. We found that animals vaccinated with these antigenic sites had significantly lower viral loads after RSV challenge than unimmunized controls. Low lung pathology and low Th2/Th1 cytokine ratios were observed in all vaccinated-challenged groups. Therefore, several antigenic sites apart from the CCD motif in the G protein provide protective immunity against RSV.
The study by [Authors] looks at how post-transcriptional mechanisms are used to determine the identity of individual cells during neural specification in Drosophila. They focus on the Ap cluster of neurons, which are located in the thoracic hemisegments of the central nervous system and are easily identified by their expression of the factors Ap and Eyes absent (Eya). The authors examined the role of two genes, Brr2 and Prp8, in the identity of the Tv4 neuron of the Ap cluster. Brr2 encodes a small ribonucleoprotein type DExD/H Box ATPase with helicase activity, while Prp8 encodes a PROCT domain protein, both of which are principal components of the spliceosome. The authors found that these two genes play a key role in ensuring proper TGF-β/BMP target-derived signaling, which is essential for the specification of the Tv4 neuron identity. Specifically, they found that Brr2 controls the specification of the Tv4 neuron identity through two mechanisms: correct axonal pathfinding to the target tissue and specific RNA processing of the transcripts encoding the BMP receptor subunit Thickveins (Tkv) and Medea, both essential for TGF-β receptor signaling pathway activity. These findings demonstrate that specific RNA processing plays a key role in ensuring proper TGF-β/BMP target-derived signaling, and extend our knowledge of the post-transcriptional mechanisms involved in diversifying neuronal identity.
The process of "ubiquitin dependent proteolysis" is important for many cellular processes, such as signal transduction and cell cycle progression. Ubiquitin is attached to substrates through a multi-step process that involves three classes of enzymes: E1, E2, and E3. E3 ligases are the key players in this process as they mediate substrate-specific covalent attachment of ubiquitin. Within the E3 ligase family, cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) are the largest class. One of the best-understood complexes within the CRLs is the SCF ubiquitin ligases, which are composed of yeast Cdc53 (mammalian cullin-1), Skp1, Rbx1, and one of the multiple F-box proteins. F-box proteins are unstable and this allows for the formation of diverse repertoires of SCF complexes within the cell. The abundance of F-box proteins is regulated through various degradation pathways. Autoubiquitylation is one such pathway, where F-box proteins are degraded through their incorporation into functional SCF complexes. Another degradation pathway involves the anaphase promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C), which targets mammalian Skp2 for degradation. In yeast, Met30 is one of three essential F-box proteins that coordinates metabolic pathways with cell cycle progression. It is known that the transcription factor Met4 is a target of SCFMet30 and that low levels of the methyl donor, S-adenosylmethionine, cause a block in SCFMet30-dependent ubiquitylation of Met4. This activates Met4 and results in cell cycle arrest and transcription of methionine response genes. Cadmium exposure induces active dissociation of Met30 from Skp1, thereby inhibiting SCFMet30 and inducing glutathione production and cell cycle arrest, which together protect cellular integrity. The authors have now discovered a new degradation pathway for Met30 that is independent of autoubiquitylation and Skp1. This pathway involves the SCF core components Cdc53, Rbx1, and Cdc34, and suggests a function of Cdc53/Cul1 that is independent from association with Skp1.
In this study, the authors investigate how kinesin motors are regulated to transport the correct cargo to the right cellular destination at the right time. Kinesin motors are proteins that drive long-distance transport of cargo along microtubules. They are important in neuronal cells, which have a long length and polarity. When there is no cargo, kinesin motors are kept inactive to prevent wasteful ATP (adenosine triphosphate) hydrolysis and movement. Two models have been proposed to explain how kinesin motors are regulated. The first model suggests that dimeric motors are regulated by an autoinhibitory mechanism, where the tail domain of the motor interacts with and inhibits the motor domain. The second model suggests that motor activity is regulated by transition from a monomeric to dimeric state. In this study, the authors found that mammalian kinesin-1 motors exist in a dimeric, inactive state, supporting the autoinhibition model. They also identified the sequences and mechanisms required for dimerization and inhibition, providing support for an autoinhibition mechanism. The authors concluded that kinesin-1 motors do not undergo cargo-induced dimerization and that only dimeric motors undergo processive, ATP-driven motility.
Tomato is one of the most important fruits for human consumption worldwide. It contains important nutrients, such as flavonoids, carotenoids, fibers, vitamins, and essential amino acids. Additionally, tomato is the best-studied fruit-bearing model organism, and has been used extensively to study the genetic basis of various traits. Scientists have identified a vast array of QTL associated with fruit quality and plant-specific organ relations. They have also developed ILs that have helped to identify QTL associated with seed size, dormancy, and vigor. The genetic basis of seed trait variability, however, has not yet been fully explored. Moreover, the relationship between mother plant traits and seed metabolism and vigor has not yet been studied in detail. In this study, scientists analyzed the metabolite contents of dry tomato seeds from a collection of ILs. They used MQTL mapping and correlation-based metabolic network analysis to integrate the generated profiles with metabolic and morphological data collected in earlier studies. Their findings shed light on the recent advances in the regulation of plant metabolism.
Vibrio cholerae is a bacterium that causes watery diarrhea in humans and it infects millions of people worldwide every year. Most of the cases are found in countries with poor sanitation. To survive in the intestine, the bacteria need to adhere to and colonize cells. In aquatic environments, the bacteria attach to fish, crustacea and algae to get nutrients, which gives them an advantage over other bacteria. A protein called GlcNAc binding protein A (GbpA) is believed to be responsible for this adhesion. GbpA binds to GlcNAc-containing carbohydrates like chitin and mucins. The importance of GbpA for colonization has been shown in different Vibrio cholerae strains. The authors have determined the three-dimensional structure of GbpA using X-ray crystallography and small angle X-ray scattering and have found that it has an unusual, elongated four-domain fold. Two of the domains appear to be similar to known chitin-binding modules and are responsible for binding chitin. The other two domains are similar to bacterial pili binding proteins and bind to the Vibrio cholerae surface. Finally, complementation studies with truncated forms of GbpA identify the domains responsible for mucin binding and virulence in a mouse infection model.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a complex disease that kills millions of people every year. In 2016, about 1.3 million HIV negative and 374,000 HIV positive people died from TB. The disease is aggravated by the growing number of multidrug resistant and extensively drug resistant cases. Controlling TB is challenging due to the limited availability of vaccines. A better understanding of the disease processes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection is needed. The CD4+ T cell compartment plays a crucial role in immunity to TB. Maintaining an effective anti-TB Th1 T effector (Teff) response requires counter-regulation by natural regulatory T cells (Treg). Treg cells are responsible for suppressing Teff cell proliferation and cytokine expression. However, their role in the chronic phase of TB is unclear. Our study aimed to understand whether Treg-mediated homeostasis is disrupted in the chronic phase of Mtb infection and how this may contribute to disease. We found that Treg frequency and suppressive potential are preserved in PTB, but peripheral expansion of a subset of activated CD4+ Teff cells identified by HLA-DR expression compromises Treg-mediated control. HLA-DR+ Teff are resistant to Treg-mediated suppression, which may be due to the expression of higher levels of Th1/Th17 cytokines that negatively regulate Treg function. We identified putative resistance pathways, and blocking studies showed that HLA-DR+ Teff are compromised to Treg-mediated suppression through the β-chemokine receptor CCR5 and the negative regulatory molecule PD-L1. Both CCR5 and PD-L1 promote Treg suppression. Our data provide fresh insight into how HLA-DR+ Teff cells may contribute to inflammation and loss of Treg-mediated homeostasis in TB.
PrPSc, a type of misfolded proteins, is known to cause transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. PrPSc is a multimeric conformer of the ubiquitous host protein PrPC. PrPC has one or two N-linked glycans, and their structure is highly variable. PrPC is attached to the outer surface of the plasma membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor, but transmembrane forms have been identified. In prion-infected cells, PrPC is converted to PrPSc at the membrane and within the endosomal-lysosomal compartment. PrPSc accumulates mainly in intracellular compartments. PrPC monomers with a conformation allowing efficient accretion are required for chronic infection. PrPC is conformationally very flexible, but certain conformations may be more frequent in some cell types than others, which could account for the tropism of prion strains. To investigate this, tgGPI− mice were inoculated with various prion strains or isolates, and the cell tropism of the resulting isolates was assessed using the Cell Panel Assay. It was found that the cell tropism of RML, 139A, 79A, and ME7 prions became distinctly different when propagated in tgGPI− mice. However, ME7 prions recovered their original cell tropism after one passage in wild-type mice, and RML-derived prions did not recover their original cell tropism even after three cycles of propagation in wild-type mice. These results suggest that the two conformations of PrPSc are separated by a high activation energy barrier, which is abrogated in tgGPI− mice. The different replication mode in the extracellular space may also be a factor.
Bone Morphogenetic Proteins ( BMPs ) are signaling molecules that play a key role in many biological processes during development. In Drosophila , BMPs are used to establish the different patterns and fates of the embryo's ectoderm by creating a gradient in the dorsal region. This gradient results in the formation of either the dorsal epidermis or the amnioserosa. The formation of this gradient is accomplished through the phosphorylation of the transcription factor Mad by the BMP receptor Tkv, which then interacts with Medea to stabilize in the nucleus. This process is regulated by a number of mechanisms, including phosphorylation, dephosphorylation, SUMOylation, and ubiquitination, which affect the transcriptional activity, subcellular localization, and degradation of Smad transcription factors.
Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL), also known as "Le Bouton de Gafsa," was first described in 1884 in Tunisia. The disease is caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania major and is transmitted by the sand fly vector Phlebotomus papatasi. The disease is maintained in endemic areas such as Gafsa, Kairouan, and Sidi Bouzid governorates, and has expanded to other areas in the center and south of Tunisia. No vaccine is available yet, and the current treatments for ZCL are expensive and not easy to administer, particularly for children and patients with multiple lesions. An international research partnership was launched in 1995 to focus on clinical trials of topical preparations as new treatments of ZCL. Epidemiological studies have attempted to determine the spatial and temporal dynamics of ZCL epidemics in Tunisia, and the majority of L. major strains isolated in Tunisia belong to the MON-25 zymodeme. Microsatellite markers are a powerful tool for studying the population structure and monitoring the dynamics of L. major in time and space. This study aims to analyze the spatio-temporal organization of L. major in the three main endemic areas of ZCL in Tunisia (Gafsa, Kairouan, and Sidi Bouzid governorates) using a multi-locus microsatellite typing approach and population genetic statistical methods.
Helminth infections are common and can cause a lot of disease and disability, especially in low-income communities. The World Health Organization recommends treating everyone in a community with anti-parasite medication to control these infections. However, it's important to also improve water, sanitation, and hygiene to prevent people from getting infected again after treatment. Recent studies suggest that better access to clean water, sanitation facilities, and hand-washing may help to reduce the risk of reinfection. However, other studies have not found a clear link between WASH interventions and reduced helminth infection rates. More research is needed to understand how to best use WASH interventions along with medication treatments to eliminate these infections.
Microorganisms live together in their natural environment and interact with each other. Some of these interactions involve the use of growth inhibitors or toxins directed at competitors. These toxins are produced by both unrelated and closely related microorganisms. The R- and F-type pyocins of Pseudomonas are examples of proteins that kill cells by inserting their core structure through the cell envelope or depolarizing the cytoplasmic membrane. The S-type pyocins of Pseudomonas are similar to Escherichia coli colicins and can kill cells by causing nucleic acid degradation, cytoplasmic membrane damage, or inhibition of peptidoglycan synthesis. The protein toxin putidacin A, or LlpABW, is not related to any known bacteriocin and has been identified in three different genera of bacteria. This protein is equipped with two related domains belonging to the 'monocot mannose-binding lectin' (MMBL) family. The MMBL domain consists of a β-prism fold containing three potential carbohydrate-binding pockets. The LlpA branch occupies a unique position among MMBL-domain proteins and harbors non-eukaryotic representatives and is equipped with the capacity to kill bacterial cells with bacteriocin-like specificity. A crystal structure of LlpABW has been reported, which will help to understand how domain architecture and specific structural elements contribute to its activity and specificity.
The bacterium Bacillus subtilis has a special way of forming spores that requires cell-cell signaling. This signaling is carried out by proteins in the mother cell and forespore that work together to create a "feeding tube" between the two cells. This feeding tube allows the mother cell to provide the forespore with small molecules it needs to develop into a spore. When these proteins are missing, the forespore fails to develop properly.
This paper explains how genome-wide association studies (GWAS) can help identify genetic markers associated with common diseases. However, the effects of associated variants are often small and may not be enough to accurately predict disease risk. The paper suggests that there may be many more genetic markers associated with diseases, each with very small effects that can add up to a significant proportion of the disease risk. The authors of the paper show that it is possible to identify replicable genetic signals in circumscribed regions of the genome that would not be captured by single locus analyses in a single GWAS data set at genome-wide significance levels. The authors suggest that this can help improve our understanding of the genetic basis of diseases.
Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide, and many chemotherapeutic agents target rapidly proliferating cells to fight it. However, these agents also affect the non-cancerous but proliferating tissues. To find new anti-cancer drug targets, researchers have used shRNA techniques to screen thousands of genes for those that are essential for cancer growth and proliferation. However, these screens have limitations such as off-target effects and partial knock down of the target genes. In this study, we used a computational approach to analyze the association between gene expression and growth rate measurements in 60 cancer cell lines. We identified the genes and cellular processes that are related to cancer proliferation and determined whether their expression levels are positively or negatively associated with proliferation. We also compared our results with those obtained in non-cancerous proliferating human cells. This study lays the foundation for future identification of selective anti-cancer drug targets.
Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a type of parasite infection that can occur in humans when they accidentally swallow the ova of the Echinococcus granulosus tapeworm from a dog's stool. The parasite then spreads throughout the body, affecting the liver, lungs, and other organs. CE is common in some parts of the world, including Europe, North and East Africa, China, and the Southern Cone of the Americas. While the liver and lungs are affected most often, hydatid cysts can appear at any part of the body. The heart is affected in less than 2% of cases. Endovascular extracardiac CE is very rare and is usually caused by the rupture of a germinative membrane from a cyst at another site, like the heart or vena cava, with consequent embolization to the pulmonary or systemic circulation. We describe 11 cases of CE that affected the heart and endovascular system. We also review cases from the literature and offer recommendations for managing these patients.
The TIR domain, located in some bacteria, can reduce the ability of a host's immune system to fight off infection. This feature may help bacteria survive and establish a critical population size. The bacterial TIR domain protein, TirS, can inhibit the immune system's response to infection by attenuating host inflammatory responses. TirS is located within a mobile genetic element called SCCmec, which is spread among methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA) strains. A sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid can increase the expression of TirS. TirS can also be found in some other staphylococcal species, such as Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus lugdunensis. This study is the first to describe a TIR domain protein carried by a mobile genetic element conferring resistance to antibiotics. It may be important to understand the role of TirS and its relationship with SCCmec in the spread of antibiotic-resistant S. aureus.
The study used post-genome technologies to identify all the genes involved in the specification of body plans and morphological diversification in different species. The researchers compared gene expression in the fruit fly and mosquito embryos and found significant differences in their temporal expression profiles. These differences were clustered into gene pairs with discordances in their expression profiles. The major gene cluster matched known genes involved in the function of the mosquito serosa. The study also revealed significant discordances in maternally expressed genes in flies and mosquitoes. These findings provide a framework for identifying the genetic circuits underlying embryonic diversity.
In recent years, researchers discovered that H. ducreyi, a type of bacteria, is a major cause of skin ulcers in tropical regions. They found that H. ducreyi was responsible for 27% to 60% of skin ulcers in these regions, while 15% to 34% were caused by T. pallidum subsp. pertenue. Mixed infections with both bacteria were also found in some cases. Unlike yaws, which is caused by T. pallidum subsp. pertenue, H. ducreyi does not result in inflammatory lesions of the bones. The researchers found that H. ducreyi is highly infectious, and reinfections after clinical and microbiological cure of H. ducreyi genital ulcers are common. Azithromycin is an effective treatment for both yaws and H. ducreyi infections. However, in a study conducted on a remote island in Papua New Guinea, MDA (mass drug administration) with oral azithromycin drastically decreased the proportion of ulcers containing T. pallidum subsp. pertenue DNA, but had a limited impact on H. ducreyi. This raises the possibility that H. ducreyi might exist in a natural reservoir, such as on the skin of asymptomatic carriers. This study examined the skin of children for the presence of H. ducreyi and T. pallidum subsp. pertenue DNA. The researchers also looked at whether the bacteria can be cultured from the skin of these children, whether contacts of an ulcer case are more likely to carry the bacteria, and whether potential environmental sources, such as linens and flies, might contain the bacteria.
Bioinformatics is a field of study that involves using computers and mathematical models to analyze and interpret biological data. However, the need for training and education in bioinformatics is diverse and requires different skills and knowledge levels for different audiences. For example, someone training to be a bioinformatics engineer needs to understand algorithms and how to critically evaluate them, while someone using bioinformatics resources in an applied context, such as in medical practice, needs a basic understanding of the methods and a stronger focus on interpreting the results. In a recent publication, the International Society for Bioinformatics (ISCB) Education Committee's Curriculum Task Force described potential core competencies for different user groups. In this paper, we provide a further refinement of these competencies and use cases illustrating their application to different bioinformatics education and training programs globally.
The article discusses a study of the parasitic nematode Strongyloides stercoralis, which infects 30-100 million people worldwide. The study aims to understand the molecular mechanisms that control the development of an infectious larval stage known as L3i, which is both stress-resistant and long-lived. Researchers used the nematode Strongyloides ratti, which is closely related to S. stercoralis, and the parasitic worm Caenorhabditis elegans to investigate the regulation of L3i development. They identified homologs of C. elegans genes involved in dauer regulation in S. stercoralis and examined their temporal regulation throughout the life cycle. They found that the IIS and cGMP signaling pathways may play a role in L3i regulation. However, they also identified differences between C. elegans dauer genes and their S. stercoralis homologs, including protein structure, developmental regulation, and expansion of gene families.
This study used animals for experiments that were approved by the Animal Care and Experimentation Ethics Committee in Bordeaux, France. The animals were kept in a secure facility and handled by trained professionals only. The experiments were conducted in accordance with the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals.
Leprosy is a disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae ( M . leprae ) and can lead to facial deformities that result in segregation and prejudice. These facial deformities are known as facies leprosa and rhinomaxillary syndrome. The maxilla is the bone that supports the external nose structures, and morphological changes in the maxilla greatly affect the shape of the nose and face. Plastic surgery has only been performed to correct saddle nose, but not the deformed maxilla itself. In this study, we reconstructed three-dimensional CT images of the maxillary bone in patients with leprosy and control subjects. We then compared our CT findings with maxillary deformities described in paleopathological studies. After standardizing and comparing leprotic and control data, we were able to quantify the thickness of the maxillary bone defects that require reconstructive surgery.
Previous research has shown that sounds are represented differently in different parts of the auditory system. In the auditory periphery, sounds are represented in terms of their physical structure, including any noise. In higher areas of auditory cortex, relevant sounds are represented in a more context-independent, categorical manner. However, very little is known about the neural computations that might generate noise invariance or where exactly along the auditory pathway this is achieved. The auditory system adapts to the constant statistics of background noise, which helps it to build noise-invariant representations of sounds. This adaptation can be seen in the changes in response patterns of individual auditory neurons, as well as in the progressive increase in the strength of adaptation and in the noise tolerance of population decoding, as one progresses through the auditory pathway.
Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks are a versatile tool to understand the functional organization of living cells. Modules are groups of highly connected proteins in the network. Recent studies have shown that proteins can belong to multiple modules, suggesting that they have multiple functions. In this study, the authors analyzed the yeast PPI network after heat shock and found that it became a 'larger world' with a larger diameter. The modular structure of the network was also partially disintegrated, which may enable a 'post heat shock' re-integration with slightly different inter-modular contacts that provide an adaptation response to the changed environment.
Chagas disease is a type of parasite infection that is important for public health and can cause heart problems in some people. The disease is most common in Latin America, but it has also spread to other parts of the world due to immigration. There are about 6-8 million people worldwide who are affected by the disease. Treatment options are limited and not widely available. Amiodarone is a medicine that can improve heart function and reduce the risk of arrhythmias in people with Chagas disease. However, there is limited information about the benefits and risks of using amiodarone for Chagas disease. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review of the available studies to better understand the effects of amiodarone on Chagas disease. Our results suggest that amiodarone can improve heart function in people with Chagas disease and reduce the risk of arrhythmias. However, there is a risk of adverse effects such as hypo- or hyperthyroidism and pulmonary fibrosis when taking amiodarone. Overall, our findings suggest that amiodarone may be an effective and safe treatment option for people with Chagas disease.
Mosquito-borne illnesses are common in tropical countries. Dengue is a common viral illness spread by mosquitoes in the Aedes genus, which is prevalent in Ecuador. The diagnosis of dengue is difficult due to its similarity to other acute febrile illnesses and can be affected by seasonality. Seasonality affects dengue diagnosis rates through several mechanisms including human behavior, such as spending more time outdoors during the rainy season, which can increase exposure rates. Additionally, host immunity may be decreased during the rainy season due to factors such as seasonal variation in gene expression, levels of immune-modulators and blood cell composition, food availability, daylight exposure, and/or environmental exposures. The climate of Ecuador is diverse, with hot and semi-arid or tropical savanna climates along the coast, warm-summer Mediterranean climates in the central Andean range, and tropical rainforest climates in the east. The study aimed to determine the seasonality of dengue fever by decomposing seasonality into non-climate seasonality and climate-driven seasonality using data from clinically diagnosed dengue patients at two hospitals in rural Ecuador. Non-climate trends included short- and long-term trends, and the effects of school sessions, public holidays, and weekdays on dengue fever diagnoses. Climate-driven trends included an examination of regional and local climate variable impacts on dengue fever diagnoses.
The majority of viruses have RNA instead of DNA and some of these viruses, including those that affect humans, do not have effective vaccines or treatments. These viruses have an enzyme called RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) that allows them to replicate their RNA genome and produce proteins. To prevent the body's immune system from attacking them, these viruses create special compartments in the cells where they replicate. These compartments are made by changing the structure of cells' membranes. By sequestering the virus's replication machinery and its RNA, these compartments help protect the virus from the immune system. Scientists have discovered that when they make mice that produce a version of the protein that helps these viruses replicate, the mice become resistant to viruses. This resistance comes from a protein called MDA5, which is activated by the presence of virus RNA. The activated MDA5 turns on a group of proteins called interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), which protect cells from viruses. However, when this protein is always activated, it can cause autoimmune diseases. Surprisingly, the mice that are always producing this protein do not get sick. This suggests that there may be a way to use this protein to protect people from viruses without causing autoimmune diseases.
This article is about understanding the "effective population size" (Ne) of a virus, which is the number of viruses that can reproduce at any given time. Ne is important for understanding how genetic drift, mixed-genotype infections, recombination, and competition affect the evolution of viruses. The independent-action hypothesis (IAH) is a model that proposes that each virus has a non-zero chance of infecting a host, and that the action of viruses is independent of each other. The authors suggest that Ne can be estimated by using the infection probability and the number of viruses the host is exposed to. They also suggest that Ne can be directly estimated from the rate of host infection if IAH holds. However, they note that the generality of this model is questionable, and the authors suggest that further studies should be conducted to determine whether the IAH model applies to the infection process of RNA viruses or plant viruses. They then conduct their own experiments with two tobacco etch virus (TEV) genotypes that differ only in the color of the fluorescent marker, and challenge highly susceptible tobacco plants and less susceptible pepper plants with different doses of TEV. They then determine the number of primary infection foci in the inoculated leaf and compare the data to predictions of the IAH model.
The study is about integrating transcriptional profiling and linkage mapping to analyze gene expression across multiple tissues and identify genes that are controlled by genetic factors. The authors used regularised multivariate regression and Bayesian variable selection methods to analyze gene expression across multiple tissues in mouse embryonic stem cells and brain tissues. They found that many genes are regulated by both cis- and trans-acting genetic factors, and that this regulation is tissue-specific. The study showed that Bayesian variable selection methods can identify more cis- and trans-effects than classical methods for the same false discovery rate (FDR) level.
This paper is about a process called apoptosis, which is important for the development of multicellular organisms. Apoptosis happens when a cell commits suicide, but this process can go wrong in diseases such as cancer and autoimmunity. In this paper, researchers describe a model called "ordinary differential equation" (ODE) that shows how this suicide process happens. The model takes into account the factors that control the process, such as DNA damage and oxidative stress. Researchers have also tested this model using different methods, such as RNA interference (RNAi) and protein overexpression, to see if the model accurately describes what happens in real cells.
In this article, the authors describe the role of the InlP protein, a member of the internalin family, in the infection of human placental cells. This protein is found in pathogenic strains of Listeria monocytogenes, a type of bacteria that can cause severe infections in pregnant women. The authors found that InlP binds to a protein called afadin, which is found in the cytoplasm of human placental cells. This binding enhances L. monocytogenes' ability to move from cell to cell within the placental monolayer, which is important for the infection of fetal cells. This could potentially lead to a better understanding of how L. monocytogenes crosses the placental barrier and cause infection.
The study aimed to identify and analyze the proteins that T. pallidum makes during infection of rabbits. The research team analyzed three biological replicates of T. pallidum that were grown in rabbits, and used a special technique called tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) to analyze the proteins. The team identified 557 T. pallidum proteins, which represents 54% of the total predicted proteins in the organism. Many of these proteins were previously unknown, and their functions are still being studied. The study provides important insights into the biology of T. pallidum, which is the cause of syphilis.
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is a signaling molecule that helps cells respond to various external stimuli. In higher eukaryotes, cAMP binds to Protein Kinase A (PKA) to regulate cellular processes such as the immune system and cell proliferation. PKA is made up of two main parts: a regulatory subunit and a catalytic subunit. The regulatory subunit binds to cAMP, which causes the tetrameric structure to partially dissociate and release the active catalytic subunit. The regulatory subunit contains a series of domains, including two cAMP-binding domains (CBDs). CBD-B has been less studied than CBD-A, but it is believed to play a critical role in PKA inhibition and activation. In this study, researchers compared the structure and dynamics of CBD-A and CBD-B in different forms (apo, cAMP-bound, and C-bound) using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. They found that each CBD has a nearly degenerate free energy landscape when alone, but binding cAMP eliminates this degeneracy and selects the active conformation within each CBD. They also found that the cAMP-bound state is not fully quenched, with major loci of residual dynamics found in the CBDs. The residual dynamics profile of CBD-A and -B are different, which suggests that conservation of structure does not necessarily imply conservation of dynamics. Overall, this study provides new insights into the dynamics of CBD-B and its role in PKA regulation.
This study investigates the role of a protein called ISG15 in protecting cells from viral infections. ISG15 can be found in two forms: as a standalone protein, or attached to other proteins in a process called ISGylation. ISGylation happens in three main steps, which are performed by different enzymes, and it can be reversed by an enzyme called USP18. The study found that ISG15 can be attached to viral proteins, which prevents them from functioning properly. The study also showed that ISG15 can disrupt the process of virus-budding, which is how viruses leave infected cells. The study found that ISG15 plays an important role in the regulation of mitochondria, which are important for cellular homeostasis and have been associated with many diseases. The study found that ISG15 can regulate the metabolism and degradation of mitochondria, which are essential for cellular homeostasis and could be a key factor in viral defense. The study also found that ISG15 can modulate macrophage polarization, which is important for the immune system's response to infection. This study provides important information on the role of ISG15 in protecting cells from viral infections and regulating mitochondria and macrophage polarization.
The proteasome pathway helps get rid of proteins that have been marked for destruction by poly-ubiquitination. These proteins are selected by E3 ubiquitin ligases, which come in three classes. The Skp1-Cullin1-F-box proteins are one of these classes and are involved in cell-cycle progression. The F-box protein in these proteins binds to Skp1 and recruits a specific substrate for destruction by the proteasome. The F-box protein requires the substrate to be phosphorylated before it can bind. The human papillomavirus E6 protein and HIV-1 Vpu are examples of viral proteins that use the proteasome pathway to destroy cellular targets. HIV-1 Vpu also helps HIV-1 viral particles leave the cell, and it helps to downregulate the CD4 receptor during HIV infection. A previous study has shown that Vpu binds to βTrCP, a cellular protein that helps with the proteasome pathway. This binding allows Vpu to help βTrCP destroy its substrates. However, the study also found that Vpu is itself a target of the proteasome pathway. Specifically, it is degraded in cells arrested in early mitosis by nocodazole. This degradation requires the serine 61 residue to be phosphorylated. Therefore, the fate of Vpu as either an adaptor or a substrate of distinct ubiquitin ligases is determined by differential phosphorylation. The controlled degradation of Vpu decreases the efficiency of Vpu-mediated release of HIV-1 virions, which helps balance efficient HIV-1 dissemination and preservation of the reservoir of infected cells.
Organisms need to develop in a way that ensures their tissues pattern correctly in the face of different environments and conditions. To do this, their developmental processes must be robust and integrated across their body. This means that tissue patterning and whole-body development must progress together. In Drosophila, a fruit fly, pulses of a hormone called ecdysone control the growth and patterning of imaginal discs, which become adult tissues. Ecdysone also controls the timing of developmental events like moulting, wandering, and pupariation. Changes in the duration of development can affect how tissue patterning progresses, but it is not clear if this is always the case. To understand how tissue patterning is coordinated with whole-body development, we developed a staging scheme for the progression of patterning in the wing imaginal discs of Drosophila larvae. We then altered the duration of development by using different temperatures or by changing the timing of ecdysone synthesis. We found that tissue patterning is coordinated with some, but not all, developmental events and that this coordination varies between events.
Endocytosis is a fundamental process that helps cells regulate various important cellular processes, such as sorting plasma membrane proteins for degradation. Endosomes, which are specialized compartments within the cell, play a key role in this process. ESCRT is a highly evolved protein complex that helps sort endocytosed proteins for degradation. ESCRT-3 is a core component of ESCRT that helps form intraluminal vesicles and maintain endosomal homeostasis. However, the precise function of ESCRT-3 and how it is regulated is not fully understood. In this paper, the authors explore the function of ESCRT-3 during endosomal trafficking in fungal hyphae. They found that ESCRT-3 is required for unipolar growth and that it helps transport endosomes along microtubules to maintain cell polarity. The authors also discovered a link between endosomal trafficking and mRNA transport, which is essential for the correct subcellular localization of septin proteins involved in cell growth. Overall, this paper sheds light on the complex mechanisms involved in endosomal trafficking and their importance for maintaining cellular homeostasis.
Riboswitches are RNA molecules found in untranslated regions of mRNA that control gene expression. They have been found to respond to various factors such as temperature, small metabolites, and even uncharged tRNAs. Riboswitches regulate gene expression by altering their conformation in response to changes in the environment. They are composed of two domains: an aptamer and an expression platform. The aptamer is the most conserved domain of the riboswitch and is involved in binding a specific cellular metabolite. The expression platform modulates gene expression by altering the mRNA structure. Two types of riboswitches have been identified that bind different ligands: guanine and adenine. Guanine riboswitches negatively regulate expression by attenuating transcription, while adenine-specific switches activate expression at the level of transcription. The authors report the characterization and comparison of the regulatory mechanisms of two types of adenine-specific riboswitches from different bacteria. The add riboswitch from Vibrio vulnificus is proposed to operate under a thermodynamic regime in which ligand binding and riboswitch regulation can occur post-transcriptionally, while the pbuE riboswitch from Bacillus subtilis is proposed to operate under a kinetic regime in which the transcription-translation coupling is required for efficient genetic control.
Scientists have developed a new way to study a process called primer-dependent initiation (PDI) in bacteria. They found that PDI occurs in Escherichia coli during stationary phase but not during exponential phase. They also found that PDI leads to an increase in the expression of at least two genes during stationary phase and that it plays a role in biofilm formation. The scientists also found that the pattern of PDI in Vibrio cholerae, another pathogenic Gammaproteobacteria, is similar to that in Escherichia coli.
In mammals and plants, mothers give birth to embryos that receive nutrients from a special organ called the placenta (mammals) or the seed endosperm (plants). The nutrients are provided by the mother, and as a result, the embryo receives an unequal amount of nutrients from each parent. This imbalance is thought to cause conflict between the mother and the embryo over how much food the embryo gets, as suggested by the kinship theory. To test this idea, scientists looked at how the growth of the endosperm and the embryo changed when the number of copies of each parent's genes was increased or decreased. They found that some genes were turned on or off depending on whether they were passed down from the mother or the father. This suggested that the embryo and the mother were competing for nutrients, with the embryo trying to get as much as possible from the mother. However, the results did not fully support this idea.
Recent studies have shown that both large and small parts of the brain have different rhythms. In these rhythms, each frequency appears at a different place on a logarithmic scale, making it harder for different rhythms to interact with each other. The overall intensity of these rhythms decreases with the frequency, which is similar to many other complex systems. We used mathematical tools to create a model, or "virtual brain," that recreates the complex rhythms of the brain. We expected that these virtual brains would have common features, such as the balance between excitation and inhibition, the number of highly connected nodes, and other features. We also wanted to see if we could create virtual brains that would reproduce altered rhythms found in diseases such as epilepsy and schizophrenia. We expected to find changes in connectivity and dynamics in these altered virtual brains that would give us some insight into the structural and physiological changes associated with these diseases.
The MESA study includes a large group of Hispanics living in the United States, but they are diverse with different ancestry backgrounds. There are several different ways to analyze their genetic makeup, but it's not always clear which method to use. The paper uses computer programs to analyze the genetic makeup of the MESA Hispanics, and they found four distinct groups based on the results. These groups correspond to people from different regions in Latin America and the Caribbean. The paper also suggests that genetic analysis on the whole group of Hispanics may be better if there is only modest difference in genetic effects, but if the differences are bigger, it may be better to analyze the data separately by region.
The Elongator complex is an important group of proteins that is involved in many cellular processes, including transcription, DNA replication, repair, and other processes. The complex has been shown to be involved in histone acetylation, which plays a role in regulating gene expression and DNA repair. Additionally, the complex is involved in the acetylation of alpha-tubulin, which stabilizes microtubules. Recent studies have revealed that the Elongator complex is also involved in polarized exocytosis.
The authors introduce a new method called "CNN-based document triage" that uses a convolutional neural network to identify relevant publications for curation. They compare the results of their method with those of traditional machine learning-based methods and show that their method outperforms them. Additionally, they demonstrate the utility of their method by applying it to two external knowledge bases and comparing it with the query-based methods used in these knowledge bases. They argue that their method can greatly improve the efficiency of the document triage step in these knowledge bases. Overall, their study provides a promising approach for automating the document triage step in the curation of biomedical literature.
The heart uses a special type of potassium (K+) channel to maintain its electrical stability. This channel is called IK1 and it's responsible for keeping the heart cells' resting potential stable, as well as for helping to end the heart's electrical activity. The Kir2 . 1 channel that makes up IK1 is encoded by the KCNJ2 gene. In some people, mutations in this gene can cause problems with the channel, which can lead to serious heart arrhythmias. One example is Andersen-Tawil syndrome, which can cause potentially life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. On the other hand, some other KCNJ2 mutations can also cause problems with the Kir2 . 1 channel, but in a different way. These mutations can cause an increase in the activity of IK1, which can make the heart cells more prone to arrhythmias. These mutations can cause shortened QT intervals, tall and peaked T waves, and loss of rate-adaptation of the QT interval. This can make people with these mutations more likely to have ventricular and atrial arrhythmias, and in some cases sudden cardiac death. One of these mutations, called D172N, has been linked to familial atrial fibrillation, which is a common type of arrhythmia that causes the heart to beat irregularly. This study aimed to investigate how the D172N and E299V mutations affect the Kir2 . 1 channel, and how this affects the heart's electrical stability. The study used computer models to simulate the electrical activity of the heart, taking into account the effects of these mutations on the Kir2 . 1 channel. The study found that both mutations caused changes in the electrical activity of the heart, but in different ways. The D172N mutation caused the Kir2 . 1 channel to be more active at certain potentials, which made the heart cells less stable. The E299V mutation caused the Kir2 . 1 channel to be less active at certain potentials, which also made the heart cells less stable. The study also looked at how inhibiting the Kir2 . 1 channel might affect the heart's electrical stability in people with these mutations. The study found that inhibiting the Kir2 . 1 channel might be a way to treat some of the arrhythmias caused by these mutations. Overall, the study provides important information about how different mutations in the KCNJ2 gene can affect the Kir2 . 1 channel, and how this can affect the heart's electrical stability.
Chagas disease is a complex disease that affects the heart and digestive system. It is caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi, which is spread mainly through insect bites. However, there are other ways to get the disease, such as through blood transfusions, organ transplants, eating contaminated food, or congenitally (from mother to child). Chagas disease is a common problem in Central and South America, but it is also becoming more common in North America because of immigration from those areas. There are many different treatments for Chagas disease, but not all of them work for everyone. A study was done to test a new treatment for people with heart failure caused by Chagas disease. The treatment involved injecting bone marrow cells into the patients. Unfortunately, this treatment did not work. However, other types of stem cells might be more effective. These cells have been shown to help repair heart damage and they also have other helpful effects, like calming down the immune system and increasing blood flow to the heart. Scientists are studying whether certain types of stem cells, called mesenchymal stromal cells, can help with Chagas disease. These cells can sense when there is inflammation in the body and they can respond in different ways depending on the situation. They can also interact with the immune system and recognize certain molecules that are released by the parasite that causes Chagas disease. The study found that these cells can help to improve heart function and reduce damage to heart tissue in a mouse model of Chagas disease. This suggests that these cells could be a useful treatment for people with Chagas disease.
Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by parasites that live in a special organelle inside cells called a parasitophorous vacuole (LPV). These parasites can cause a range of diseases from skin ulcers to organ damage. It is important to understand more about the composition of the LPV in order to develop new treatments for leishmaniasis. Recent studies have shown that molecules that are normally found in secretory pathways can also be found on the LPV surface, and that these molecules are important for LPV formation. One such molecule is syntaxin 5 (Stx5), which is found in early secretory pathway vesicles and is important for their fusion. When Stx5 is blocked, LPVs are smaller and contain fewer parasites. This suggests that blocking protein transport could be a way to treat leishmaniasis. A small molecule called Retro-2cycl was found to block the movement of molecules along the secretory pathway, including toxins and viruses. Analogues of Retro-2cycl were then found that could block the movement of toxins and viruses even more effectively. These analogues were then tested on Leishmania parasites and were found to be lethal. This suggests that Retro-2cycl and its analogues could be useful in treating leishmaniasis. In addition, blocking protein transport could also help to stimulate the immune response of the host.
The nucleosome is a fundamental unit of genomic organization made of an octameric protein core surrounded by ~147 bp of DNA. It plays a crucial role in organizing the DNA and regulating gene expression. Recent studies have shown that nucleosomes can be positioned in specific sequences within the genome. These specific nucleosome positions are regulated by chromatin remodeling enzymes or by the basal affinity of a given sequence of DNA for a nucleosome. The specific positioning of nucleosomes can affect gene expression. This study focused on the transcriptional regulation of the Ly49 family of immune genes by nucleosome positioning. Ly49 receptors are expressed on natural killer (NK) and other immune cells. These receptors interact with the class-I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I). The sensitivity of Ly49 receptors to MHC-I expression levels allows NK cells to distinguish healthy cells from cancer or virus-infected cells. In this study, the authors used a mouse cell line called RMA to investigate the effects of nucleosome positioning on the expression of the Ly49 family of immune genes. RMA expresses only Ly49A and none of the other Ly49 receptors. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), the authors compared the nucleosome coverage of expressed Ly49 genes to that of the silent ones in the same population. They found that AML-1a binding sites are preferentially depleted of nucleosomes in expressed Ly49 genes when compared to the unexpressed genes within the same population. This suggests that nucleosome positioning is a possible mechanism to regulate Ly49 expression in vivo.
This paper discusses the process of cell cycle commitment in G1 phase and the role of the CDK4/6 kinases in this process. CDK4 and CDK6 are activated by D-type cyclins, which are produced in response to mitogenic signals. This leads to the phosphorylation of the cell cycle/tumor suppressor pRb, which results in cell cycle commitment. The CDK4/6 kinases are controlled by several mechanisms, including feedback loops involving E2F and p27/Cip1. These feedback loops can result in a bistable switch, which either commits the cell cycle or keeps it in a quiescent state. In addition, the phosphorylation of CDK4 at T172 is a critical step in its activation, and this phosphorylation is regulated by proline-directed kinases, which are separate from the CAK/CDK7 kinase that is commonly thought to activate CDKs. The paper concludes that the CDK4/6 kinases are essential for cell cycle commitment and that their regulation is complex, involving multiple kinases and feedback loops.
In plants, the process of meiosis is essential for reproduction, resulting in the production of haploid gametes. However, few transcriptional regulators of meiotic gene expression have been identified. DUET is a PHD finger protein required for male meiosis in Arabidopsis. Loss of DUET results in defective meiotic gene expression, chromosome condensation, and segregation. The protein interacts with chromatin and H3K4me2 is required for function. The phenotypes observed in duet are partially rescued in duet partially complemented lines, but the parallel spindle phenotype during meiosis II persists. DUET is expressed only during diplotene in prophase I. TDM1, a gene required for meiotic cell cycle transitions, is a direct target of DUET and its onset coincides with the timing of DUET expression. TDM1 is not expressed during female meiosis, suggesting a possible role for DUET in regulating male meiotic gene expression. DUET functions as a transcriptional regulator during male meiosis and its PHD finger binding to H3K4me2 is critical for function.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a genetic disorder caused by a specific mutation in the FMR1 gene. The most common feature of FXS is mental retardation. The symptoms of a related disorder, Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS), include tremors, ataxia, and psychiatric symptoms. FXTAS is caused by a different mutation in the FMR1 gene, known as a premutation. The premutation causes the levels of a specific type of molecule to be high in cells from people with FXTAS, while the amount of another type of molecule remains normal. It is thought that this difference in molecule levels is what causes the symptoms of FXTAS. Researchers are studying specific proteins that bind to the abnormal molecules and may be contributing to the symptoms of FXTAS. They have identified several proteins that may be involved in the disorder and are now studying their roles in causing the symptoms of FXTAS.
Biofilms are communities of bacteria that are embedded in a slimy substance called extracellular polymeric substance (EPS), which helps them to stick to surfaces and resist treatment with antibiotics or host immune systems. These biofilms are prevalent in environments and can cause diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, infections in catheters, and contact lens infections. Scientists have known that bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa can form biofilms, and that their biofilms have a matrix of EPS made of polysaccharides, nucleic acids, and proteins. However, the specific chemical composition of P. aeruginosa EPS and how it is anchored to the bacteria and how it helps the bacteria to stick together are unknown. In this study, scientists used a technique called confocal scanning laser microscopy (CLSM) to visualize the EPS of P. aeruginosa biofilms. They found that the EPS is composed of a network of long fibers that form a matrix around the bacteria. They also found that the bacteria are anchored to the surface of the biofilm by the EPS. Furthermore, the scientists used a lectin specific to a type of polysaccharide, called Psl, to stain the EPS of P. aeruginosa biofilms. They found that the Psl fibers are laid in a helical pattern around the bacteria and that Psl is essential for the formation of the EPS matrix and the initiation of a biofilm. They also found that the EPS matrix is constantly changing structure to maintain the biofilm architecture during development. Lastly, the scientists used a technique called double staining to visualize the EPS of P. aeruginosa biofilms and the extracellular DNA (eDNA) of the bacteria in the biofilm. They found that the EPS and eDNA matrices do not overlap but appear to coordinate activities to maintain the biofilm structure. The scientists propose that P. aeruginosa may use programmed cell death and autolysis to degrade the EPS matrix in the center of microcolony to free 'the seeds of biofilm' for future dispersal.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a deadly and difficult-to-treat cancer. The study looked at three different types of disease models to see how well they recapitulate the genetic complexity of PDAC. The three disease models are patient-derived organoids (PDO), patient-derived xenografts (PDX), and cell lines. The study found that PDO and PDX models have limited fidelity when it comes to recapitulating simple mutations found in PDAC patients. However, when it comes to large structural variations and copy number changes, the study found that PDX models can retain some of the heterogeneity of the donor's tumor. Overall, the study provides new insights into the interplay and fidelity of different disease models toward recapitulating PDAC heterogeneity and genomics.
Breast cancer is a common cancer found in women around the world, including those living in East Asian countries. While there are some genes that have been linked to breast cancer, most of the genetic risk factors for this cancer have not been confirmed. Recently, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several new genetic factors that increase the risk of breast cancer. However, these newly-identified genetic factors do not explain a large portion of the heritability for breast cancer. Many of the genetic factors discovered in studies of European-ancestry populations did not show a significant association with breast cancer in East Asian populations. Therefore, it is important to conduct GWAS in East Asian women to fully understand the genetic basis for breast cancer susceptibility.
Cryptococcal meningitis (CM) is a major cause of death for people with AIDS, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where it is estimated to cause over 500,000 deaths per year. Despite access to antiretroviral therapy (ART), acute mortality from CM in sub-Saharan Africa can be as high as 70% in real-world practice. Researchers have identified several clinical prognostic markers for CM, including high fungal burden, poor cryptococcal clearance rate, and altered mental status at presentation. However, the underlying mechanisms that lead to these clinical outcomes are not fully understood. Researchers recently found that the in vitro phagocytosis of clinical cryptococcal isolates by J774 murine macrophage-like cells was associated with poor patient survival in a cohort of 65 patients with HIV-associated CM. Previous studies have shown evidence of genetic lineage associated with phenotype and clinical outcome in other pathogenic microorganisms and fungi. In a recent study of 140 Cryptococcus neoformans (Cn) isolates from Uganda, researchers provided the first evidence of genetic lineage associated with phenotype and clinical outcome in Cn. Cn is one of the most common causes of fungal meningitis worldwide, and it is believed to have a primarily human host. The majority of the global disease burden is caused by the Cn var grubii (Cng) subspecies, which is known to infect severely immunocompromised HIV-infected individuals. Cng can be divided into three major molecular types: VNI, VNII, and VNB. VNI and VNII are globally distributed, while VNB appears to be endemic to Southern Africa. However, there is growing evidence of globally distributed VNB. In this study, researchers genotyped 230 Cng isolates from well-characterised patients enrolled in four clinical trials conducted in South Africa using multi locus sequence typing (MLST). They studied the genetic diversity of Cn present in the patients from the region and explored associations between genotype and in vitro phenotype in a subset of 89 patients. Finally, they analysed the whole patient cohort and looked for relationships between genotype, clinical presentation, and outcome of CM. The researchers hypothesised that genotype was associated with cryptococcal virulence and that if true, they would find a correlation between phenotypic and clinical parameters, and the underlying lineage and genotype of Cn.
The white cell pheromone response pathway in Candida albicans, a fungus that can cause opportunistic infections, evolved from the opaque cell mating pathway. The opaque cell mating pathway controls the formation of a biofilm, which can facilitate mating between minority opaque cells of opposite mating type. The white cell pheromone response pathway, however, does not control mating but does promote adhesion, biofilm formation, and expression of specific genes in white cells. A screen of a library of overexpressed transcription factors revealed that Tec1 was the missing component of the white cell pheromone response pathway. Tec1 is also involved in filamentation and is a target of the S. cerevisiae transcription factor Ste12.
The variation in genomic GC-content among different bacterial species is quite remarkable, ranging from 16.5% in Carsonella ruddii to 75% in Anaeromyxobacter dehalogens. This variation is thought to affect both coding and non-coding sites and is not limited to specific groups of bacteria. The reasons for this variation are still unknown, but many factors are thought to influence genomic GC-content, such as genome size, whether the bacterium is free-living or not, environment, aerobiosis, nitrogen utilization, and temperature. However, it is not clear whether these correlations are due to mutation bias or natural selection. Some bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, have an AT-biased mutation pattern, but their genomic GC-content is higher than would be expected based on this bias. This is because functional constraints prevent the mutation pattern from reducing the genomic GC-content. Synonymous sites in lowly expressed genes also have a GC-content of about 57%, which is considerably higher than the equilibrium inferred from mutation studies. This excess of GC→AT mutations is less acute in common polymorphisms and can be explained by natural selection against GC→AT mutations. Similar patterns are seen in the pseudogenes of Mycobacterium leprae and are thought to be due to the loss of DNA repair enzymes. To test whether genomic GC-content is simply a consequence of mutation bias, we investigated the pattern of synonymous genetic variation in 149 different bacterial species.
In Africa, many countries have programs to reduce soil-transmitted helminths (STH) infections. These programs often use schools to give deworming medicine. This paper shows a way to map where STH infections are most common in Kenya using a special type of math called Bayesian geostatistics. The paper also shows how this map can be used to decide where it is most important to give medicine to school-aged children.
Innate immune cells recognize pathogens and act as the first line of defense against infection. Some types of these cells, such as γδ T cells and NKT cells, are functionally defined as innate lymphocytes. These cells serve important roles in host resistance to different infections. However, it is not clear whether these cells contribute to immunity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. NK cells and γδ T cells become activated and produce interferon-γ (IFN-γ) after Mtb infection, which helps activate macrophages (Mφ) to fight the infection. However, mouse models of Mtb infection in which NK or γδ T cells are defective or depleted have not shown that these cells are essential for immunity to tuberculosis. Despite this, these cells may play a role in controlling bacterial replication or forming granulomas. An in vitro model has been established to study the role of innate lymphocytes in immunity against Mtb. In this model, splenocytes obtained from uninfected mice are cultured with primary Mφ infected with virulent Mtb. Under these conditions, splenocytes produce IFN-γ, stimulate NOS2 upregulation and NO production, and suppress intracellular Mtb replication. This report identifies the cellular mechanism that mediates this innate effector function against the intracellular human pathogen Mtb.
This study looks at the protein Tgl, which plays an important role in the formation of spores in bacteria. Spores are hardy structures that bacteria can use to survive in harsh conditions. Tgl helps to protect the spores by cross-linking proteins in their outer coat. The study finds that Tgl only cross-links proteins in the outer coat, not in the inner layers. This is because Tgl only binds to the outer coat when its substrates are already present. The study also finds that certain residues in Tgl are important for cross-linking substrates, and that these residues are involved in both the enzyme's catalytic cycle and its assembly. Overall, this study sheds light on how Tgl cross-links proteins in the outer coat of spores.
Opisthorchis viverrini is a type of parasite that causes severe liver and bile duct diseases in Southeast Asia, particularly in Lao PDR and Thailand. The parasite has two freshwater intermediate hosts: Bithynia snails and Cyprinidae fish. People become infected by eating raw or undercooked fish. Open defecation into water bodies can contaminate them, which then spreads the parasite to the second intermediate host. Environmental factors such as temperature and rainfall influence the transmission of the parasite between the two intermediate hosts. The purpose of this study is to create a map showing the distribution of the parasite in a southern province of Lao PDR where opisthorchiasis is highly endemic. We want to understand which environmental factors are more important in determining the distribution of the parasite compared to demographic, socioeconomic, water, sanitation, and behavioral determinants.
The study focused on Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, where 29% of the urban population lives in slum conditions. The study aimed to analyze the typology of mosquito breeding habitats in Dar es Salaam, particularly drains, and assess their importance as a source of larval habitats for vectors of LF and malaria. The study found that drains are a common breeding habitat for mosquitoes, particularly Culex and Anopheles, which are vectors of LF and malaria respectively. The study also found that certain characteristics of drains, such as the presence of organic material and vegetation, were associated with the presence of mosquito larvae. The study highlights the importance of drains as breeding habitats for mosquitoes and suggests opportunities for a coordinated effort of vector control to control both LF and malaria in Dar es Salaam.
Dengue fever (DF) is a serious illness that affects many people worldwide. It is caused by the dengue virus (DENV), which consists of a single strand of RNA. The virus enters the cell and produces 10 different proteins, three of which are structural (capsid, membrane, and envelope) and seven of which are nonstructural. These proteins play an important role in the replication of the virus inside the cell, which is aided by the presence of lipids in the cell membrane. During the replication process, the virus uses lipids to build its new shell, making it important to understand how DENV interacts with lipids in the cell. Research has shown that DENV infection can lead to an increase in the total cholesterol levels in cells, which is caused by the uptake of low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. Additionally, the enzyme that is responsible for producing cholesterol (HMGCR) becomes less active during DENV infection, causing cholesterol levels to increase. It is also known that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) play important roles in regulating the activity of HMGCR. In this study, researchers found that DENV infection can lead to a decrease in the activity of AMPK, which can cause an increase in HMGCR activity. This increase in activity can result in the accumulation of cholesterol at the site of viral replication. The researchers also discovered that activating AMPK can have a significant antiviral effect, which highlights AMPK as a potential new target for developing antiviral drugs against DENV.
The current research aims to better understand the energy landscapes of biological machines, which are composed of molecules such as proteins, RNA, and other cofactors. To do so, the research uses all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to identify groups of residues that undergo collective rotations and displacements. From this, reaction coordinates were identified that capture key motions during ribosome-mediated substrate translocation, such as 30S-body rotation, 30S-head swivel, and tRNA displacements. By analyzing an explicit-solvent simulation of the pre-translocation complex, effective diffusion coefficients were calculated in each coordinate space. These quantitative measures of short time-scale fluctuations and effective diffusion were used to relate the kinetics and free-energy barriers of translocation. Overall, the research provides experimentally-grounded upper bounds for the long length-scale barriers associated with translocation and estimates for the magnitude of the short-scale energetic roughness.
This article is about a study that looked at the genetic makeup of a type of cancer called medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). The study used a new technology called next-generation sequencing (NGS) to look at the genes that are changed in MTC. The researchers found that the RET gene is commonly mutated in both familial and sporadic MTC, and that the RAS gene is also frequently mutated in sporadic MTC. The researchers also looked for a genetic change called ALK rearrangement in MTC, but they did not find it. The study suggests that the RET gene mutation may be a predictive factor for the effectiveness of a new drug called cabozantinib, which is used to treat advanced MTC.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a disease that is spread by a specific type of sand fly and caused by a type of parasite called Leishmania donovani. It is estimated that 200,000 to 400,000 new cases of visceral leishmaniasis occur worldwide each year. In India, Nepal, and Bangladesh, Leishmania donovani is the only cause of visceral leishmaniasis, Phlebotomus argentipes is the only known vector, and humans are the only reservoir. These three countries have started an initiative to eliminate the disease by 2015. However, one of the challenges they face is that some people who are infected with Leishmania donovani do not show any symptoms and can spread the disease to others. The present study was conducted in an area where visceral leishmaniasis is common to determine the number of people who are infected but do not show any symptoms and the rate at which they develop signs and symptoms of visceral leishmaniasis or post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL).
A new method is presented to analyze genome instability, which is important for normal cellular growth and development. Genome instability, such as genome rearrangements and aneuploidy, is associated with abnormal cellular growth, such as cancer. Genome rearrangements are also associated with inborn genetic diseases, such as Down Syndrome. The genetic factors that suppress or enhance genome instability are less well understood. A quantitative genetic assay was developed to measure the rates of genome rearrangements in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Genetic studies using this assay have revealed that numerous genes and pathways contribute to genome stability. To analyze the structure of genome rearrangements, a technique called Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) was adapted to provide more detailed information about the GCRs at a lower cost and in less time. MLPA is a multiplex amplification technique that has been used to identify duplications, deletions, and aneuploidy in human cells. In the present study, MLPA was used to investigate target site bias of Ty1-mediated GCRs, RAD52-independent formation of Ty1-mediated translocations, and aneuploidy induced by deletion of RTT109, a gene encoding a histone acetyltransferase. This study provides valuable insights into the mechanisms by which genome rearrangements and aneuploidy are formed.
The paper describes a new algorithm, called SDU (Semi-Definite programming-based Underestimation), for minimizing funnel-like functions. The SDU algorithm uses general quadratic functions to construct a smooth underestimator that is optimized to minimize the original free energy function. The paper explains how the SDU algorithm works and how it has been successfully applied to test problems that resemble the free energy functions. The paper then describes a docking method that uses the SDU algorithm to find the global minimum of a funnel-like function approximating the free energy over regions of the conformational space. The paper explains the challenges associated with the application of the SDU algorithm to docking and describes two implementations of the algorithm: SDU1, a cyclic coordinate descent strategy where rotational and translational moves alternate; and SDU2, a 5D strategy in which the distance of the two proteins is separately optimized and the SDU-driven search is performed in a lower dimensional space defined by 5 angular coordinates. The paper shows that the SDU1 and SDU2 strategies are effective in discovering broad energy funnels, generating high quality docking predictions, and providing a substantial efficiency gain compared to Monte Carlo methods.
