In order to determine whether polyadenylation site selection in 3′ UTRs is associated with gene expression, we analyzed 3′ UTRs of 6241 genes from 24 cell lines using 3′-end RNA-seq data and 1000 Genomes data. We found that polyadenylation site selection is significantly associated with expression of 3′ UTRs across all cell lines. We also found that polyadenylation site selection is significantly associated with expression of 3′ UTRs across all cell lines. We then used a multi-dimensional statistical analysis to identify regulatory elements that are associated with polyadenylation site selection and are potentially involved in alternative polyadenylation. We found that many of these regulatory elements are conserved across species and are located in the 3′ UTRs of 3′-end RNA-seq genes. We also found that many of these regulatory elements are conserved across species and are located in the 3′ UTRs of 3′-end RNA-seq genes. We then used a multi-dimensional statistical analysis to identify regulatory elements that are associated with polyadenylation site selection and are potentially involved in alternative polyadenylation. We found that many of these regulatory elements are conserved across species and are located in the 3′ UTRs of 3′-end RNA-seq genes. We then used a multi-dimensional statistical analysis to identify regulatory elements that are associated with polyadenylation site selection and are potentially involved in alternative polyadenylation. We found that many of these regulatory elements are conserved across species and are located in the 3′ UTRs of 3′-end RNA-seq genes. We then used a multi-dimensional statistical analysis to identify regulatory elements that are associated with polyadenylation site selection and are potentially involved in alternative polyadenylation. We found that many of these regulatory elements are conserved across species and are located in the 3′ UTRs of 3′-end RNA-seq genes.
The CD8 T cell response to SIVΔnef is characterized by increased depth and breadth but not magnitude over time after vaccination. Increased anentropic specificity is associated with the accumulation of CD8 T cell responses specific for conserved regions of the virus and is not associated with MHC I expression. De novo CD8 T cell responses against escape variants are also observed during chronic infection. The kinetics of protection correlate with the accumulation of CD8 T cell responses with anentropic specificity.
The inflammatory response to infection is essential for protection of the host, but excessive inflammation can be detrimental. The immune response against oral fungal infections is complex and involves multiple cell types and mediators. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a potent inflammatory cytokine that is produced by multiple cell types and mediates neutrophil recruitment and activation. Although IL-1 is essential for protection against fungal infections, excessive IL-1 signaling can lead to immunopathology. We found that IL-1 signaling was essential for protection against oral candidiasis in mice, but that excessive IL-1 signaling caused severe tissue damage. We also found that keratinocytes, which are the predominant cell type in the oral mucosa, are a major source of IL-1 during oral candidiasis. Our data identify a previously unknown role for keratinocytes in the innate immune response against oral fungal infections, and suggest that targeting of keratinocyte-derived IL-1 could provide a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of oral fungal infections.
The Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF) delivered nearly 2 billion treatments and reached almost 570 million individuals in 48 of the 83 identified endemic countries during the first 8 years (2000–2008). Of these 570 million individuals, 31.4 million would have acquired clinical disease (subclinical disease not included) but were protected from infection altogether because of interruption of the transmission cycle by MDA. This group comprises the proportion of newborns (2.2 million) that are protected by virtue of being born in MDA-treated areas and other individuals in the general population (0.5 million) protected because LF transmission has been interrupted. The remaining 28.7 million individuals are those who were already infected at the time of MDA treatment but benefit from halted disease progression. These efforts in reaching and administering MDA to such a large population have produced extraordinary economic benefits over the first 8 years of the GPELF. An estimated US$21.8 billion will be saved over the lifetimes of 31.4 million individuals who have or would have acquired clinical disease during this timeframe. This total amount results from summing the direct treatment costs (US$1.4 billion) and indirect lost wages (US$20.4 billion) prevented over the lifetime of each of the population groups under the assumptions and estimates previously outlined in Table 3. On average , each individual of the benefit cohort population will avoid nearly $700 in LF-associated costs that would have accrued over his/her lifetime. This equates to the amount earned for 19 working days per person-year , thus preventing the loss of approximately 6.3% of annual income ( Table 6 ). These sums and averages are even greater when considered in a single year-to-year perspective , since beyond 2008 , each year of economic benefit is discounted by 3% per year . The total economic benefit resulting from reduced LF infections resulting from MDA delivery during the first 8 years of the GPELF is estimated at an extraordinary US$24 billion. This overall economic analysis of the GPELF's first 8 years does have notable limitations due to the lack of regionalized primary data concerning both epidemiological and socioeconomic factors associated with LF . Secondary sensitivity analyses investigating the frequency and duration of ADL episodes indicated less variability of economic benefits when adjusting these parameters. Goldman et al . found the average annual economic cost per person treated (i.e., including the implied costs of donated materials and drugs—set at US$0.19+$0.0019 for shipping per 400mg tablet of albendazole and US$1.50+$0.0018 per 3mg tablet of ivermectin) ranged from US$0.40 in Philippines to $5.82 in Tanzania. The average annual financial cost per person treated (i.e., excluding the costs of the donated materials and drugs) ranged from US$0.06 in Burkina Faso to $1.34 in Haiti. One-year economic benefits per person treated in this study ranged from US$1.00 in Burkina Faso to US$4.56 in the Dominican Republic. Table 10 compares these economic benefit estimates with the economic and financial costs from Goldman et al .'s study to calculate country-specific BCRs. The economic cost BCR for the three African countries using the ivermectin+albendazole regimen are lower (0.21–0.37) than those in countries using DEC+albendazole (1.23–8.59). Since the drugs , however, are available at no cost to the GPELF , BCRs calculated using financial costs are more favorable , ranging from 1.64 in Egypt to 18.07 in the Philippines . One-year economic benefits per person treated in this study ranged from US$1.00 in Burkina Faso to US$4.56 in the Dominican Republic.
Researchers have generated a novel GBA mutant medaka with a W337X mutation that is associated with Parkinson's disease. The medaka were viable, fertile, and showed no evidence of neuronal degeneration or impaired motility. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the mutant medaka expressed α-syn in the brain. This study demonstrates the utility of medaka as a model organism for studying GBA-related Parkinson's disease and provides an important resource for future research on the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
In this study, the authors aim to understand how the immune response to Listeria monocytogenes, a pathogenic bacterium, is affected when some of the bacteria remain within the host cell's phagosome. The study is conducted in mice and the authors find that when the bacteria are confined to the phagosome, it can limit the immune response to the bacteria that are able to escape from the phagosome. The authors also find that this effect is dependent on the cytokine IL-10.
In this study, the authors identify several common and rare sequence variants in the SIX6 gene that are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). They then use in vivo and in vitro assays to show that these variants have functional consequences on SIX6 protein function. These results suggest that the identified SIX6 variants may increase POAG susceptibility by negatively affecting retinal ganglion cell development, ultimately leading to a reduction in the number of retinal ganglion cells in adulthood.
We have developed a quantitative assay for determining the orientation of the C. difficile flagellar switch using a single colony of C. difficile. We also found that flagellar phase variation in C. difficile is driven by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, RecV, and the flagellar switch is regulated by a riboswitch mechanism.
In this study, we have analyzed the control of spore morphogenesis by the four cell-type-specific sigma factors of C . difficile , σF , σE , σG , and σK , in relation to their respective roles in controlling early and late stages of development. In contrast to B . subtilis , where σE controls early stages and σF controls late stages , in C . difficile , both σE and σF are required for early stages of development , but they have distinct functions . σE seems to be involved in coordination of morphogenesis with DNA metabolism and σF is involved in coordination with the membrane transport system. σG and σK play roles in late stages of development. The transcription of the sigE and sigF genes is controlled by σF and σE, respectively, and both are strongly inhibited by σK , suggesting that σF and σE are not activated until after spore germination . However, we did not observe a complete σF- and σE-independent role of σG in the early stages of development . We found a requirement for σF and σE in spore germination, suggesting a role for these sigma factors in the regulation of the final stages of spore development. We also observed a role for σG and σK in the late stages of spore development, beyond the initial stages of germination. Interestingly, our data show that σE is not required for spore germination, despite its role in early stages of development. We also observed that σK is not required for entry into sporulation, despite its role in late stages of development.
This paper presents a mathematical framework to describe the dynamics of allosteric multisite phosphorylation systems. The modified fraction (MF) approach is based on the assumption that any active protein can be regarded as the product of the protein's phosphorylation fraction and its activity function. The MF approach is derived from this assumption and applied to model multisite phosphorylation. The model is implemented in a simulation and tested against experimental data for a yeast budding cell cycle checkpoint. The results show that the MF approach can accurately capture the dynamics of a multisite phosphorylation system. The approach is also used to develop a mathematical model of the checkpoint system, which is tested against experimental data. The results of the model suggest that the checkpoint is regulated by a feedback loop between the size of the bud and the level of phosphorylation of the checkpoint proteins. The MF approach provides a simple and intuitive way to model the dynamics of allosteric multisite phosphorylation systems, and its application to the yeast budding cell cycle checkpoint system highlights the importance of multisite phosphorylation in regulating cellular processes.
In this study, the authors examined the AI-2-mediated QS system of E. coli. They used a combination of genetic and biochemical methods to isolate and analyze the individual components of the AI-2 uptake and signaling modules. They found that the lsr-operon and the lsrR gene play important roles in this system. They also discovered a new regulatory pathway involving a second AI-2-binding protein, REG. The authors propose a new model for the AI-2 uptake and signaling module that takes into account the roles of both lsrR and REG. They also suggest potential mechanisms for the negative regulation of the lsr-operon by lsrR and the positive regulation by REG. Overall, the authors' findings provide new insights into the AI-2-mediated QS system and the mechanisms of AI-2 uptake and signaling in E. coli.
Our study aimed to investigate the effect of schistosomiasis on malaria infection in children living in an endemic area of both infections. Using data from a longitudinal study, we compared children infected with schistosomiasis to those without infection on the risk of developing malaria and time to first malaria episode. We found that children infected with schistosomiasis had a higher risk of developing malaria and shorter time to first malaria episode than those uninfected. When we combined schistosomiasis with other helminth infections, the effect on malaria infection increased. We also found that the effect of schistosomiasis on malaria infection was age-dependent. Our findings suggest that schistosomiasis may increase the risk of developing malaria in children and that other helminth infections may enhance this effect.
The role of IRF-5-mediated inflammatory signaling in the response of dendritic cells to infection by Leishmania donovani was investigated. IRF-5-deficient dendritic cells were found to be more effective at suppressing T cell expansion and killing parasites, which is associated with a decrease in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10, IL-12, TNF, and HIF-1α. In vivo, HIF-1α expression was induced in dendritic cells by L. donovani infection, and HIF-1α expression was found to be dependent on IRF-5-mediated inflammatory signaling. Increased expression of HIF-1α in dendritic cells was found to impair their ability to kill parasites, suppress T cell expansion, and promote parasite survival. These findings suggest that IRF-5-mediated inflammatory signaling plays a crucial role in regulating the response of dendritic cells to infection by L. donovani.
The study conducted by Rocha et al. aimed to identify prognostic factors associated with unfavorable evolution and death in American visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The authors reviewed 34 studies published in the last 15 years in order to identify the most important predictive variables of poor prognosis. The results showed that jaundice, liver dysfunction, thrombocytopenia, splenomegaly, and immunological deficiency were the most important predictors of adverse evolution and death. The study also highlighted the need for more research to improve the understanding of the pathophysiology of visceral leishmaniasis.
This study investigated the susceptibility of Leishmania parasites to antimony in Algeria. The study found that the frequency of the S-phenotype of Leishmania parasites increased in Algeria over the past 30 years. The study also found that the susceptibility of Leishmania parasites to antimony varied by species and geographic region. The study provides valuable information for the development of strategies to manage leishmanioses in Algeria.
Chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of disorders characterized by persistent inflammation of the intestinal tract. IBD affects millions of people worldwide, with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis being the most common forms. While the exact cause of IBD remains unknown, it is believed to involve a complex interplay of genetic, environmental, and microbial factors. Recently, research has focused on the role of the microbiota, particularly bacteria residing in the intestine, in the development and progression of IBD. Specifically, enteric pathogenic bacteria, such as Salmonella enterica and Citrobacter rodentium, have been linked to the development of IBD. In this study, the authors used a mouse model of colitis to investigate the role of enteric pathogenic bacteria in the development of IBD. They found that exposure to enteric pathogenic bacteria exacerbated intestinal inflammation and tissue damage in mice with underlying susceptibility to colitis. The authors suggest that their findings have implications for understanding the development of IBD in humans and may lead to new therapeutic targets for the treatment of IBD.
In this study, we describe a novel mechanism by which Arabidopsis female gametophytes determine their fate. We found that the protein LIS, which is homologous to the yeast spliceosome component PRP4, is required for the repression of gametic cell fate in accessory cells of the female gametophyte. LIS is essential for the lateral inhibition that prevents excess gametic cell formation. We identified a single T-DNA insertion in the LIS gene that results in female gametophytes with excess gametic cells. We propose that the absence of LIS leads to the loss of lateral inhibition and, as a result, gametic cells are formed in all female gametophyte cells. Our findings provide insight into the mechanisms that regulate fate decisions during plant development.
This paper presents the findings of qualitative research on footwear and related practices in a rural Ethiopian community with a high prevalence of soil-transmitted diseases (STDs), including podoconiosis and leprosy. The authors used a combination of focus group discussions, in-depth interviews and case studies to identify barriers and facilitators to consistent shoe use. They found that many people in the community were aware of the importance of shoes for protection against disease, but financial constraints and poor availability of appropriate shoes for local activities were major barriers to consistent shoe use. Social norms around shoe wearing also influenced behaviour, with some community members reporting that wearing shoes was a sign of dignity and others reporting that going barefoot was a sign of poverty. The authors suggest that future interventions aimed at promoting shoe use in this community should address financial constraints and improve the availability of appropriate shoes. They also suggest that interventions should be designed to take into account the social norms around shoe wearing in the community.
In a recent study, the authors demonstrated that PRV Us9, a viral protein that is essential for efficient anterograde transport in the mammalian nervous system, is highly enriched in lipid rafts of infected PC12 cells. This enrichment is critical for efficient axonal transport and viral capsid accumulation, and is dependent on the presence of Us9 and gE in lipid rafts. The authors propose a model whereby PRV gE/gI forms a complex with Us9 that binds to lipid rafts, allowing axonal transport to occur. The presence of Us9 in lipid rafts is necessary for efficient anterograde transport of viral capsids, as well as for efficient anterograde transport of viral membrane proteins. This study sheds light on the role of lipid rafts in the anterograde transport of PRV in the mammalian nervous system.
The most common type of nongenetic variation in yeast populations, called nongenetic heterogeneity, is due to the intrinsic stochasticity of eukaryotic cells and is a major obstacle to making quantitative measurements of cellular behavior. Using a novel imaging approach, we have revealed nongenetic heterogeneity in yeast growth rates and found that this heterogeneity is significantly reduced in cells that overexpress the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) subunit Tpk3. We also find that Tpk3 overexpression increases cell-to-cell variation in cAMP levels. Using an array of PKA-sensitive GFP reporters, we map the cellular localization of PKA activity and find that it is concentrated in the nucleus. However, PKA activity can be detected throughout the cell, suggesting that PKA may play a role in regulating cytosolic processes. Our data reveal an unexpected connection between the regulation of cAMP levels and cell-to-cell variation in growth rates.
The Arbovirus Reference Center (ARC) of the Institut Pasteur in Martinique is a major contributor to the global arbovirus reference network. This center is responsible for providing reference testing for different arboviruses, including Zika virus, yellow fever virus, and dengue virus. The ARC receives samples from clinical laboratories and diagnoses them by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The center also provides expertise for genotyping viruses by sequencing a portion of the envelope gene, as well as identification of virus strains by phylogenetic analysis. The ARC plays a critical role in monitoring the spread of arboviruses and identifying new strains.
This study reports the characterization of ubtor, a novel negative feedback regulator of the mTOR signaling pathway. Ubtor is a ubiquitously expressed protein with both cytoplasmic and endoplasmic reticulum localization. The protein interacts with DEPTOR, a known inhibitor of mTOR, and enhances DEPTOR-mediated inhibition of mTOR. Ubtor also stabilizes DEPTOR through ubiquitination, preventing degradation of DEPTOR upon mTOR activation. Furthermore, the study demonstrates the importance of Ubtor in cellular growth, mTOR signaling, and neoplasia.
The proteome of the parasite Trypanosoma brucei consists of proteins that perform different functions in the cell. The physical interactions among these proteins are essential for the proper functioning of the proteome. However, due to the lack of an unbiased, high-confidence, and large-enough protein complex map for T . brucei , a high false positive rate in the existing protein interaction network is a common problem. In this study, the authors conducted biochemical fractionation experiments using mass spectrometry to improve the quality of protein complexes in the Trypanosoma brucei proteome. The authors used two complementary fractionation approaches: tag-TAP and TEV-elution. The authors then combined the results of the two approaches to create a more comprehensive and high-confidence protein complex network for T . brucei (TbCFHC net). The authors used a variety of computational tools to validate and evaluate the quality of the TbCFHC net. The results of the study showed that the TbCFHC net had a higher precision and quality than the existing protein interaction network for T . brucei. The authors also found that the TbCFHC net contained 49 protein complexes, including 11 previously unknown complexes. The authors concluded that the TbCFHC net provides a valuable resource for researchers studying the proteome of T . brucei.
Our study aimed to characterize bacterial dynamics and the immune response to Mtb infection in thoracic lymph nodes (LNs) during the course of infection. We used FDG-PET/CT imaging to track changes in metabolic activity and size of LNs, and we performed serial bacterial burden determination and histological examination at necropsy. We found that LNs develop extensive granulomas, which are characterized by coalescing caseous centers and a thick outer layer of suppurative macrophages and neutrophils. LNs with active granulomas had higher bacterial burden and lower killing capacity by T cells. T cells with markers of early differentiation ( CD45RO-CD45RA+ ) and effector function ( CD27-CD28- ) were present in low numbers in LNs with active granulomas. In contrast, LNs with non-necrotizing granulomas were characterized by higher numbers of CD45RO-CD45RA+ and CD27+CD28- T cells. Intracellular cytokine staining revealed that the proportion of effector Th1 and Th17 cells was lower in LNs with active granulomas compared to LNs with non-necrotizing granulomas. Our results suggest that LNs with active granulomas may be less effective at controlling Mtb infection compared to LNs with non-necrotizing granulomas.
Microsporidia are a group of parasitic fungi that infect various animals. In this study, we analyzed the genetic diversity of microsporidians isolated from wild nematodes. We found 18 new species, including 10 from the Clade IV group. We also characterized the morphology and life cycle of the nematode-infecting microsporidians Enteropsectra longa, Pseudopsectra canis, and Pseudopsectra sp. in detail. Our results provide important insights into the diversity and ecology of microsporidians.
Here, we report the first molecular details of the interaction of chemokine receptors with each other and with cholesterol in lipid bilayers. Using atomistic and coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations, we analyzed the dimerization patterns of chemokine receptors CXCR4, CCR5, and CCR2 in different lipid environments. We found that the dimerization response of chemokine receptors to cholesterol differs between closely related receptors and between homodimers and heterodimers. Our simulations suggest that cholesterol binds to CXCR4 in a way that impairs its homodimerization but enhances its heterodimerization with CCR5, while cholesterol binding to CCR5 does not affect its homodimerization but impairs its heterodimerization with CXCR4. These findings have important implications for the complex regulation of chemokine receptor function and suggest that cholesterol may play a role in regulating the interaction of chemokine receptors with their ligands.
Leishmaniasis is a disease that can cause severe symptoms such as fever, enlarged spleen and liver, and weight loss. It is caused by a parasite called Leishmania and can be transmitted through the bite of infected sandflies. There are different forms of leishmaniasis, and the symptoms can vary depending on the type of infection. In this study, researchers examined 160 patients who were referred to a specialized laboratory for further evaluation of their immune system function. They found that 31 of these patients had an atypical form of leishmaniasis, which presented with symptoms that were different from those commonly seen in the disease. For example, the patients had symptoms such as fever, weight loss, and anemia, but without the typical enlargement of the spleen and liver. They also found that the majority of these patients were children between the ages of 2 months and 12 years old. The researchers performed a battery of tests on the patients, including complete blood count, immunoglobulin titers, complement activity and titers, chemotactic activity, and blood and organ cultures. They also performed biopsies of affected organs, such as the lymph nodes and bone marrow, and examined them under a microscope. They found that the parasite was present in all of the patients, even though their immune system appeared to be functioning normally. The researchers also found that the parasite was present within and without monocytes and some of the lymphocytes in the chronic phase of the immune cellular response to injury.
Variation in the human genome may be responsible for a wide range of diseases, and identifying the functional consequences of these variations is a major challenge in human genetics. A new method is proposed to determine if rare, disease-causing variants tend to occur at similar positions in the coding regions of paralogous genes. This method uses database resources to find and compare all known variants in human paralogous gene pairs, and calculates the odds that a disease-causing variant will occur at the same position in the coding region of a second paralogous gene, relative to the odds that a disease-causing variant will occur at any position in the coding region of a second paralogous gene. The odds ratios indicate that rare, disease-causing variants are significantly more likely to occur at the same position in the coding region of a second paralogous gene, and that this pattern is most striking for pairs of genes that are both best hits for one another and have a MAF>2%. The results suggest that similar positions in paralogous genes may be responsible for similar functional consequences.
We provide a detailed analysis of the genomic structure of the var genes of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Our analysis reveals a novel approach to grouping var genes based on conserved domain structure and sequence similarity. This novel approach allows us to identify a subset of var genes that are highly expressed in severe malaria, and to identify specific domain structures that are associated with severe malaria. We also describe a novel analytical approach to identify sequence regions that are associated with severe malaria, which reveal that a subset of var genes are expressed in combination in severe malaria, including the CIDRα1 domain. This work highlights the potential for further investigation of the molecular mechanisms of severe malaria.
Our study provides an important set of data on the effect of anti-antibodies produced in response to an anti-HIV AAV-delivered antibody therapy on the efficacy of the therapy. The results suggest that the presence of anti-antibodies can interfere with the ability of AAV-delivered antibody to protect against viral infection and can lead to a decrease in the efficacy of the therapy. These findings have important implications for the development of future AAV-delivered antibody therapies and highlight the need to consider the potential for anti-antibody production when designing these therapies.
In this study, we present numerical investigations of conformational relaxation processes in two motor proteins, myosin V and KIF1A. We employed elastic network models to analyze these dynamics. In myosin, we show that the relaxation motion is linear and can be described by a few slowest normal modes. In contrast, in KIF1A, we find that the relaxation dynamics is strongly nonlinear. Nevertheless, ordered and robust mechanochemical motions are characteristic for both motor proteins. We suggest that the monomeric kinesin KIF1A is particularly suited to be exploited as a molecular motor due to its ability to undergo ordered conformational motions driven by ATP binding. The results of our study will contribute to the understanding of the operation of molecular motors and, in particular, to the design of new experimental approaches to study their dynamics.
Caveolae are specialized membrane structures that regulate the internalization of extracellular components in mammalian cells. In this study, we have examined the role of caveolins and cavins in regulating the internalization of two different components of the cell surface: the transferrin receptor and CD44. We found that cavins are essential for the clathrin-dependent endocytosis of transferrin receptor, but not for the caveolin-dependent endocytosis of CD44. We also observed that cavins negatively regulate the internalization of both CD44 and transferrin receptor in areas of the plasma membrane that are devoid of caveolae. These results suggest that cavins function as endocytic inhibitors by polarizing the distribution of CD44 and transferrin receptor in areas of the cell membrane that are devoid of caveolae, while caveolins function to polarize the distribution of CD44 and transferrin receptor in areas of the cell membrane that are rich in caveolae.
Structural and functional analyses of RitR, a repressor from Bacillus subtilis, revealed that it is a member of the family of response regulators (RRs) that control a wide range of important bacterial processes. RitR, in contrast to typical RRs, has no phosphorylation site, which is required for the typical RRs to activate transcription. Instead, RitR represses transcription by interacting with the promoter DNA and recruiting a small protein called NtrC, which then binds to and blocks the promoter region. RitR is also able to bind the DNA in the absence of NtrC, indicating that it has a weak affinity for DNA on its own. The structural analyses showed that RitR has a unique α4-β5-α5 dimerization interface, which is different from the typical RRs. The α5 helix, which is usually involved in the dimerization interface, was found to be disordered and not involved in the dimerization. Instead, the α4-β5-α5 interface was found to be responsible for the dimerization of RitR. The functional analyses showed that the α4-β5-α5 interface is important for the activity of RitR. Mutations in the α4 and β5 regions of RitR, which are involved in the dimerization interface, led to a decrease in the activity of RitR. The α5 helix, which is disordered in RitR, was also found to be important for the activity of RitR. Mutations in the α5 helix led to a decrease in the activity of RitR. The structural and functional analyses of RitR revealed that it is a member of a new class of RRs that do not require phosphorylation for their activity.
In this study, the authors investigated the efficacy of a novel oncolytic herpesvirus (OV) in treating solid tumors. OVs are viruses that selectively infect and kill cancer cells while sparing healthy cells. This virus, called R-LM113, is retargeted to HER2, a protein commonly overexpressed in breast and ovarian cancer cells. The authors tested this virus in a mouse model of ovarian cancer and found that it was effective in killing cancer cells, reducing tumor growth, and inducing an immune response. They also tested the virus in combination with immunotherapy, which further improved its efficacy. Overall, the study suggests that this virus has potential as a new treatment option for ovarian cancer.
In this study, we evaluated the impact of the vector used to deliver the HIV vaccine on the immune response generated against the virus. We compared the immune response generated by the Ad5- and ALVAC-HIV vaccines, using HIV-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells as a proxy. We found that ALVAC-HIV elicited a significantly stronger immune response, with higher levels of HIV-specific CD8 T cells and a more robust memory response compared to Ad5-HIV. This increased immune response was not associated with an increase in HIV-specific CD4 T cells. We also evaluated the impact of Ad5-HIV and ALVAC-HIV on the immune response against influenza and found that Ad5-HIV vaccination elicited a stronger immune response against influenza than ALVAC-HIV vaccination. Overall, our findings suggest that ALVAC-HIV may be a more suitable vector for HIV vaccine development.
Research has shown that sex chromosomes, such as the X, can vary in their inactivation patterns in females, leading to different degrees of masking of the expression of deleterious alleles. We explore the conditions under which different inactivation patterns might be favored by selection. Under a mutation-selection balance model, deleterious mutations that are more frequently transmitted through females are favored by selection for preferential inactivation of the paternally inherited X chromosome. The magnitude of this bias increases with the strength of deleterious mutation effects on fitness. Under a sexually antagonistic fitness variation model, selection favors preferential inactivation of the paternally inherited X chromosome, regardless of the strength of deleterious mutation effects on fitness. In both cases, the degree of bias favored by selection is large when deleterious mutations are more frequently transmitted through females or when deleterious mutations are more deleterious in females than males.
Here, we report for the first time that human ZAP is capable of inhibiting JEV replication in vivo. We found that JEV 5′-UTR/domain II+III is necessary and sufficient for ZAP inhibition. We also found that ZAP inhibits JEV replication by a post-transcriptional mechanism. ZAP can bind to the JEV 5′-UTR/domain II+III and the domain II+III specific 5′-UTR RNA probe. Furthermore, ZAP can bind to the JEV 5′-UTR/domain II+III by crosslinking in vivo, and the JEV 5′-UTR/domain II+III RNA probe can be immunoprecipitated by ZAP. Finally, ZAP can inhibit JEV replication by disrupting the JEV 5′-UTR/domain II+III RNA structure.
Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a highly pathogenic virus that causes severe outbreaks in livestock and can infect humans, leading to fatal disease. This study is the first to use a mouse model to examine the host immune response to infection with RVFV. The study found that mice infected with the wild-type ZH501 virus experienced severe disease, with evidence of viral replication in multiple organs, including the brain. In contrast, mice infected with the live-attenuated vaccine strain MP-12 did not develop disease and had significantly lower viral loads. The study also identified distinct differences in the host immune response between the two viruses, with a robust pro-inflammatory response associated with wild-type ZH501 infection. These findings suggest that the host immune response plays a critical role in determining the severity of disease following RVFV infection.
The study reports the identification of a CCL20-p65/p38/PKCζ signaling axis that mediates CCL20-induced chemoresistance and tumor progression in breast cancer. It shows that CCL20-induced p65 activation drives ABCB1 transcription, which enhances the efflux of taxanes, and that p38/PKCζ-induced CCL20 secretion contributes to chemoresistance.
In this study, the authors investigate a protein complex required for translocation of effector proteins across the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) during Toxoplasma infection. They identify three proteins, MYR1, MYR2, and MYR3, that form a complex required for this process. The authors show that this complex is essential for effector protein translocation, and that it is likely to function as a translocon. They also show that the MYR1 protein has a disordered region that functions as a platform for association of the MYR2 and MYR3 proteins. The authors propose that the MYR1 protein may be part of a larger translocon complex that mediates translocation of effector proteins across the PVM.
We found that the HPV E2 protein binds to and inhibits host ORC2, a DNA replication origin recognition factor. The HPV E2 protein binds to ORC2 in the presence of its host DNA replication origin. The E2 protein binding to ORC2 prevents it from binding to the DNA replication origin. Additionally, we found that ORC2 is not required for E2-mediated HPV DNA replication. Our study provides important insights into how the HPV E2 protein interferes with the host DNA replication machinery to promote HPV DNA replication. These findings have important implications for understanding HPV biology and the development of therapeutic strategies to treat HPV infections.
The article presents a study that aimed to determine the prevalence of Brucella species in dairy cattle in the urban peri-urban (UPU) area of Dushanbe, Tajikistan. The study used 564 milk samples collected from 326 herds in 21 villages. The milk samples were analyzed for the presence of Brucella DNA using the universal insertion element IS711-based qPCR and 16S rRNA gene-based qPCR. Out of the 564 milk samples, 568 milk extracts were analyzed, and 10.3% (n = 58) of the milk samples were positive for Brucella DNA by IS711-based qPCR. Sequence analysis of rpoB gene from two samples showed that one cow was infected with B. abortus and another cow was most likely infected with B. melitensis. The study highlights the need for further research focusing on the isolation of Brucella species and the development of complementary diagnostic strategies to detect false serological negative individuals in Brucella surveillance, control, and eradication programmes.
We report the characterization of two newly constructed Zymoseptoria tritici mutants lacking KMT1 or KMT6, two enzymes that catalyze methylation of histone H3 lysine 9. These mutants are deficient in trimethylation of H3K9me3, a mark that is highly abundant in Z. tritici. Our studies reveal a functional redundancy between KMT1 and KMT6 in maintaining H3K9me3 levels, as well as in the regulation of gene expression. However, we also identify a number of phenotypes that are unique to each mutant, such as increased sensitivity to DNA damaging agents, differences in growth under stress conditions, and changes in the dynamics of chromosome loss during long-term evolution. These results highlight the importance of H3K9me3 for the survival and adaptation of Z. tritici, and suggest that this mark plays a role in the regulation of gene expression and chromosome loss.
This paper examines the costs of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) for rabies after a bite from a rabid animal. It compares the cost-effectiveness of intradermal (ID) PEP regimens to intramuscular (IM) regimens. The paper finds that ID regimens are more cost-effective than IM regimens, particularly in high throughput clinics where the regimens are used less frequently. The paper also finds that 1 mL vials are more cost-effective than 0.5 mL vials. The paper discusses the costs of production, distribution, and administration of PEP vaccines. It notes that the cost of production varies depending on the vial size and the regimen used. It also notes that the cost of distribution can be significant, particularly in low throughput clinics. The paper concludes that the cost of administering PEP can be reduced by using ID regimens, 1 mL vials, and vial sharing.
Excessive dietary lipid intake is associated with obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Lipid-binding proteins, such as albumin, apolipoproteins and lipoproteins, play important roles in lipid uptake and transport, preventing lipid toxicity. However, the intracellular distribution of these lipid-binding proteins in parasites, and their role in lipid transport and metabolism, are not well understood. We have characterized the lipid-binding proteome of Toxoplasma gondii, a ubiquitous parasite that causes chronic infection in humans and other mammals. Our analysis showed that Toxoplasma possesses a diverse repertoire of lipid-binding proteins, including a large number of predicted lipoproteins. Intriguingly, we found that the majority of these lipid-binding proteins are present in the parasite's dense lipid-rich organelle called the lipid body. The presence of lipid-binding proteins in the lipid body of Toxoplasma suggests that these proteins may play important roles in lipid uptake and metabolism within the organelle. Our study sheds new light on the intracellular distribution and function of lipid-binding proteins in Toxoplasma, providing a foundation for future studies on lipid metabolism in this important parasite.
We screened a library of 119 chalcones to identify compounds that inhibit Fasciola hepatica cysteine proteases, which are potential targets for anthelmintic drugs. Using a high-throughput screening approach, we identified 11 compounds that exhibited more than 50% inhibition of FhCL1 and 9 compounds that exhibited more than 50% inhibition of FhCL3. Of these compounds, C34 was the most effective inhibitor of both enzymes, with an IC50 of 7.7 µM for FhCL1 and 5.6 µM for FhCL3. Molecular docking studies showed that C34 bound to the active site of both enzymes, forming hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions with several key residues. Molecular dynamics simulations provided further insight into the binding dynamics and identified several hydrogen bonds that are important for inhibition. In vitro assays showed that C34 did not have toxic effects on bovine spermatozoa or on Fasciola hepatica larvae, suggesting that it is a promising drug candidate.
The size of the synaptic terminals of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) of retinal bipolar cells (BCs) plays an important role in the transmission of signals from photoreceptors to ganglion cells. Larger terminals tend to have a lower gain of synaptic transmission, while smaller terminals have a higher gain. This size-dependent gain of transmission is due to the different kinetics of calcium dynamics in the terminals. Small terminals have a faster rate of calcium rise, which increases the frequency of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and allows them to better transmit low-frequency signals. However, small terminals also have a shorter duration of calcium rise, which makes them less effective at transmitting high-frequency signals. The properties of synaptic transmission are highly dependent on the size of the terminals, but the mechanisms underlying these properties are not well understood. In this study, we used optogenetics to directly control the size of synaptic terminals and investigate the effects on synaptic transmission. By reducing the size of the terminals, we found that the gain of synaptic transmission increased at the expense of a decrease in temporal filtering. This suggests that the size of the terminals plays an important role in shaping the temporal dynamics of synaptic transmission. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the size-dependent properties of synaptic transmission could help us better understand the function of the visual system and how to treat disorders of the visual system.
We describe a novel unsupervised synapse detection algorithm based on a probabilistic framework, which incorporates fundamental biological knowledge of synaptic structure and function. We propose a model-based unsupervised synapse detection algorithm that can be used to identify different synapse subtypes, and we show that this algorithm can provide high accuracy detection results comparable to supervised methods, without the need for training data. The algorithm is designed to be robust to noise and artifacts in the data, and it can be used with a wide range of synaptic markers and biological tissue types. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm on the most comprehensive array tomography datasets currently available, and we show how our algorithm can be used to analyze the spatial distribution of synapse subtypes in large volumes of immunofluorescence data. Our results highlight the potential of this probabilistic approach to help researchers better understand the diversity and complexity of synaptic structures and functions in the brain, and to facilitate the development of new therapeutic interventions for neurological diseases.
Zinc is an essential trace element that is involved in various physiological processes in the human body. In breast milk, zinc is present at high levels and plays an important role in supporting the growth and development of infants. Breast milk contains two major types of zinc-binding proteins: zinc-binding protein (ZnBP) and zinc transporter 2 (ZnT2). In breast milk, ZnBP and ZnT2 are mainly present in zinc-rich vesicles (ZRVs). The expression levels of ZnBP and ZnT2 in breast milk are regulated by the hormone prolactin. The current study aims to investigate the role of ZnT2 in zinc transport in breast milk. Using a combination of computational and experimental approaches, the authors demonstrate that ZnT2 functions as a proton-coupled zinc transporter. They also show that ZnT2 mediates the transport of zinc from the cytosol into intracellular vesicles, and that this process involves the movement of two protons into the vesicles. The authors further show that ZnT2-mediated zinc transport is inhibited by the proton pump inhibitor bafilomycin A1, suggesting that the transport process is proton-dependent. Overall, the findings of the study suggest that ZnT2 plays an important role in regulating the transport of zinc in breast milk.
DNA damage and replication fork stalling cause defects in DNA replication and checkpoint activation. We have shown that yeast 14-3-3 proteins play an important role in DNA replication checkpoint activation and fork restart upon replication stress, possibly by controlling the phosphorylation of DNA replication proteins. We have also suggested a role for 14-3-3 proteins in the control of DNA replication fork progression and in the regulation of Exo1 activity.
We used a mouse model to study the role of human pDCs in HIV-1 infection and pathogenesis. We found that pDCs are the major IFN-I-producing cells in response to acute HIV-1 infection, but their activation also increases the death of all human leukocytes, including T cells. pDC depletion during chronic HIV-1 infection leads to increased IFN-I production and an accelerated pathogenesis. The results indicate that pDCs play a dual role in HIV-1 infection and pathogenesis, and that their depletion is a potential treatment strategy.
In this study, the authors examined the effect of the natural compound sulforaphane (SFN) on HIV-1 infection of human macrophages. They found that SFN blocked HIV-1 infection in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 of 30 microM. They also showed that SFN blocked infection of HIV-2 and Dengue virus, but not Marburg virus, suggesting that its antiviral effect is specific to some viruses. The authors further investigated the mechanism by which SFN blocks infection, and found that it does not inhibit reverse transcription or integrase, but instead inhibits the early stages of infection before reverse transcription. They also found that SFN does not block infection of a cell line derived from monocytes, suggesting that its effect is specific to macrophages. Overall, the authors’ results suggest that SFN could be a potential therapeutic for treating HIV infection.
This article describes the results of a community-based cross-sectional survey on the prevalence, risk factors, and effects of geohelminth infections among pregnant women in rural western Kenya. The study found that 76.2% of pregnant women had a geohelminth infection, with Ascaris lumbricoides being the most prevalent and hookworm being the second most prevalent. The prevalence of hookworm infections was lower among women who were of higher gravidity, while the prevalence of Ascaris lumbricoides was higher among women of lower gravidity. The study did not find any significant relationship between geohelminth infections and malaria or anemia, but did find a significant association between hookworm infection and a low MUAC, a measure of wasting. The study also found that hookworm and T. trichiura infections were associated with a lower hemoglobin level, but only among primigravidae. The article provides a detailed description of the methods used in the study, including the techniques used to assess geohelminth infections, as well as the statistical methods used to analyze the data. Overall, the study provides important information on the prevalence and effects of geohelminth infections among pregnant women in rural western Kenya, which can be used to inform public health policies and interventions in the region.
The compound mycolactone has been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects in the immune system. However, it was not known if mycolactone had similar effects on the nervous system, which also plays a role in inflammation. Researchers used primary cells from the peripheral and central nervous systems to investigate mycolactone's effects. They found that mycolactone has anti-inflammatory effects on neurons, microglia, and astrocytes, but does not cause cell death. This suggests that mycolactone could be a potential treatment for neuroinflammatory diseases, such as neuropathic pain.
HAT is a disease caused by infection with the parasite Trypanosoma brucei gambiense. The severity of the disease varies widely among individuals, with some individuals developing a chronic infection that never causes overt disease, while others develop an acute infection that progresses quickly to death if left untreated. It has long been suspected that host genetics play a role in determining disease severity, but until now there has been little evidence to support this idea. In this study, we investigated the association of 80 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 28 candidate genes with HAT disease outcome in a population of 425 individuals from Guinea. Our results suggest that four SNPs in the APOL1, IL6, and MIF genes are significantly associated with the risk of developing HAT or the progression of the disease. These results provide evidence that host genetics may contribute to the diversity of HAT disease outcomes and may help to identify new targets for disease control strategies.
The study presents a comprehensive evaluation of the genetic diversity of the Indian subcontinent using a publicly available dataset of 1,000 genomes. The authors focused on the admixture history of the subcontinent, identifying both local and global sources of genetic variation. They also assessed the genetic heterogeneity within each of the 16 populations studied, and analyzed the impact of migration on each population's genetic structure. Overall, the results provide a valuable resource for understanding the complex history of the Indian subcontinent.
The bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of the disease melioidosis, which is endemic to certain regions of the world. We previously reported that a clinical isolate of B. pseudomallei, strain 708a, was resistant to aminoglycosides but not to macrolides, which was unusual for this bacterium. In this study, we show that the aminoglycoside resistance of 708a was due to a large deletion that removed the amrAB-oprA efflux pump operon, which was previously shown to confer aminoglycoside resistance in B. pseudomallei. Strain 708a was still virulent in a murine model of melioidosis, despite the deletion of the amrAB-oprA operon. Our results suggest that the amrAB-oprA efflux pump may not be essential for the virulence of B. pseudomallei.
We explored the early differentiation of CD4 T cells and found that under non-biased conditions, Tbx21 and Gata3 co-express ubiquitously. We hypothesized that this is because of extracellular cytokines, IFNγ and IL4, produced by rare cytokine-producing cells, which are responsible for the initial activation of Tbx21 and Gata3. When the extracellular cytokines were neutralized, we observed a mutually exclusive expression of Tbx21 and Gata3, a hallmark of lacking mutual exclusion. We further hypothesized that this switch from co-expression to mutually exclusive expression of Tbx21 and Gata3 is the result of an intracellular mechanism that is decoupled from the extracellular cytokines, which is dependent on the abundance of IFNγ and IL4, and is likely due to transcription factors regulating cytokine locus.
C . elegans PAQR-2 and AdipoRs are members of the same protein family. In C . elegans, PAQR-2 is a transmembrane protein that appears to be involved in cold adaptation. The authors found that mutation of the PAQR-2 gene results in a lethal phenotype at 15°C, which can be rescued by mutation of Δ9-desaturase genes. The authors also found that mutation of the nhr-49 gene (a C . elegans homolog of mammalian NHR49/RXR) results in a similar phenotype to the PAQR-2 mutation, suggesting that these two proteins may interact. Furthermore, the authors found that overexpression of the C . elegans AdipoR homolog results in a phenotype similar to the PAQR-2 mutant, suggesting that these proteins may have similar functions. Overall, the authors suggest that PAQR-2 and AdipoRs are part of a conserved protein family that is involved in cold adaptation and may be important for human health.
A recent study on human herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) has revealed a unique feature within the tegument of this virus, called the portal vertex-associated tegument (PVAT). This feature is a connection between the portal vertex and the surrounding tegument, and it could mediate interactions between the portal vertex and cellular components during viral entry. The study used cryo-electron tomography to visualize HSV-1 particles and identified the PVAT through the alignment of subtomograms. The PVAT appears to be formed by a set of proteins that are consistently arranged with respect to the portal vertex and are continuous with the heterogeneous surrounding tegument. The study highlights the potential of cryo-electron tomography to reveal previously unseen features within viruses and to enhance our understanding of molecular machines.
This study investigates the effects of a protein called omega-1, which is derived from the helminth Schistosoma mansoni, on the ability of human immune cells called CD4+ T-lymphocytes to be infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1). The study finds that exposure of CD4+ T-lymphocytes to omega-1-derived protein prior to infection with HIV-1 can reduce the ability of these cells to become infected with HIV-1. This effect is specifically seen in T-lymphocytes that have been induced to differentiate into a particular type of T-lymphocyte called a T-helper type 2 (Th2) cell. The study suggests that omega-1-derived protein may be useful for developing new treatments for HIV-1 infection.
We have developed a mathematical model for the dynamic changes in extracellular and intracellular ion concentrations and volumes during neural activity in the mammalian brain. The model is based on the transport of sodium, potassium, and chloride ions through the neuronal and astrocytic membranes, and predicts that the extracellular volume shrinks while the astrocytic volume increases. The model is consistent with empirical data from published experiments, but also provides new insights and predictions that can be tested experimentally.
This study provides an overview of the role of SPT5L in plant immunity. SPT5L is a plant-specific protein that is required for the efficient silencing of transgenes and endogenous genes by RNA interference. The authors propose that SPT5L plays a crucial role in the recruitment of the repressive chromatin modifications that are required for the efficient silencing of transgenes and endogenous genes. They also discuss the importance of SPT5L in the regulation of endogenous genes that are involved in plant immunity.
This study aimed to characterize the role of the RpoS sigma factor in Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease. The authors previously identified a number of genes in the B. burgdorferi genome that are regulated by RpoS and are involved in the tissue-specific adhesion of spirochetes to mammalian cells. In this study, the authors used a B. burgdorferi strain lacking a functional copy of rpoS, as well as a number of complemented strains, to investigate the role of RpoS in these processes. The authors found that RpoS is important for the adhesion of spirochetes to mammalian cells, as well as for their persistence and replication within mammalian cells. The authors also found that RpoS is important for the formation of round bodies within spirochetes, which are thought to be involved in the survival of spirochetes in the mammalian bloodstream. These findings suggest that RpoS plays an important role in the ability of B. burgdorferi to survive and replicate in mammalian hosts, and that RpoS may be a target for the development of new Lyme disease treatments.
The present study shows that JA biosynthesis is downregulated in the ga1-3 gai-t6 rgl1-1 quadruple mutant and partially restored in the penta mutant. JA-treatment induces the expression of the three MYB genes, MYB21 , MYB24 and MYB57 in the ga1-3 gai-t6 rgl1-1 mutant. The overexpression of MYB21 partially rescues the stamen phenotype of the opr3 mutant, suggesting that JA-mediated stamen development is mainly through the MYB pathway. The data indicate that GA may be one of the endogenous signal involved in the regulation of JA biosynthesis genes and that JA biosynthesis is required for the expression of MYB21 , MYB24 and MYB57 essential for stamen development.
We show that HIF-1, a transcription factor that controls gene expression in response to hypoxia, plays an important role in lifespan extension by dietary restriction (DR) in C. elegans. Our study suggests that HIF-1 regulates the unfolded protein response (UPR) through endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathway to extend lifespan. The UPR is activated in response to ER stress when there is an accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER. This study provides new insights into the role of HIF-1 in regulating lifespan extension by DR and underscores the importance of ER stress pathways in the regulation of lifespan.
We have generated a genome-wide map of SEs and TEs in human epidermal keratinocytes and compared them to those of mouse epidermal keratinocytes. We show that SEs in human keratinocytes have unique features, including an association with disease-associated SNPs and a higher propensity to associate with genes linked to epidermal keratinocyte differentiation. We have also identified 50 transcription factors, many of which are predicted to act in distinct temporal roles during keratinocyte differentiation. We found that the transcription factor GRHL3 has a unique role in regulating migration and differentiation by repressing SEs and enhancers through interactions with REST. These findings provide a comprehensive picture of the regulatory landscape of human epidermal keratinocytes and shed new light on the mechanisms underlying the differentiation and migration of these cells.
In this study, we describe the identification of 18 new loci of endogenous JSRV/ENTV-like betaretroviruses in sheep. These loci were found in 37 different breeds and one commercial line of sheep. We show that one of these loci, enJSRV-26, is a recently integrated virus, likely after sheep domestication, and that it is an exception among enJSRVs by escaping the JSRV/ENTV-specific locus restriction factor (JLR). Our results show that enJSRVs are highly similar to the exogenous JSRV/ENTVs but differ in their ability to function as oncoproteins. We also show that enJSRVs can be produced by transient transfection of a plasmid expressing the gag, pro, pol, and env genes. We show that enJSRV-26 can also be produced by transient transfection of a plasmid expressing only the env gene. The expression of env proteins from these proviruses could lead to the production of retroviral particles that are infectious and could spread between cells. However, we show that the enJSRV env proteins are not highly infectious. The enJSRV-26 env could function as a blocker of the exogenous JSRV/ENTVs. We propose that enJSRVs and the exogenous JSRV/ENTVs play important roles in the coevolution of retroviruses and their hosts.
In this study, we evaluated the performance of real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis in fecal and urinary samples. We also examined the persistence of Schistosoma DNA in serum after praziquantel treatment. We found that the two PCR assays had high sensitivity and specificity, and they could identify both S. haematobium and S. mansoni infections. In addition, the persistence of Schistosoma DNA in serum after treatment was confirmed, with up to 27% of patients remaining positive at 6 months and 8% one year after treatment. Our findings suggest that real-time PCR assays have a significant advantage over traditional microscopy and serology-based methods for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis.
In this study, we demonstrate that Gaussian process (GP) regression, a non-parametric machine learning technique, can accurately model the relationship between molecular structure and quantum mechanical (QM) properties, even for large and complex compounds. We use GP regression to model the relationship between the relaxed geometries of Archazolid A, a complex natural product with bioactive properties, and their QM energies. We first show that training GP models with diverse conformations of Archazolid A allows for accurate prediction of QM energies for new conformations not in the training set. Then, we use GP regression to model the energy landscape of Archazolid A and demonstrate that the predictive variance of the model can be used to dynamically improve the sampling of the conformational space in a Monte Carlo simulation. Our results show that GP regression can be used as a powerful tool to model QM properties of complex natural products, and that adaptive sampling techniques can be used to further improve the efficiency and accuracy of Monte Carlo simulations.
In this study, we report the development of an immunoblot-based method for detecting ebolavirus antibodies in non-human primate (NHP) fecal samples. This method was successfully applied to screen fecal samples from wild western lowland gorillas in the Republic of Congo and Gabon, allowing us to estimate ebolavirus antibody prevalence rates in these gorilla populations. We found that 10% of gorilla fecal samples collected were positive for ebolavirus antibodies. This study demonstrates the potential of immunoblot-based fecal screening as a tool for detecting ebolavirus antibodies in NHP populations and may facilitate the development of interventions to protect great apes from ebolavirus infections.
The bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas campestris causes citrus canker, a devastating disease of citrus trees. A protein called XopL, expressed by X. campestris, suppresses plant defenses against this pathogen by activating the ubiquitin-proteasome system. XopL has a unique, previously uncharacterized, domain called the XL-box. XopL works by forming a complex with a specific type of E2 enzyme to target plant proteins for degradation. XopL's XL-box domain is necessary for this function. XopL is essential for X. campestris to cause disease. This study provides a detailed understanding of how a pathogen effector protein can subvert plant defenses, and has potential implications for understanding the evolution of plant-pathogen interactions.
The study aimed to investigate whether initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) at the earliest stages of HIV infection could prevent viral rebound after treatment interruption. The study used the RV254/SEARCH010 cohort in Bangkok, Thailand, which recruited participants at the earliest stages of acute HIV infection. The study found that initiating ART within 12 days after HIV infection led to a more favorable HIV-specific immune response and a lower viral load at the time of treatment interruption compared to initiating ART after 18 days after HIV infection. The study also found that initiating ART within 12 days after HIV infection resulted in a stronger memory B cell response and a higher proportion of memory B cells capable of producing HIV-specific antibodies. These findings suggest that initiating ART within 12 days after HIV infection could be more effective in preventing viral rebound after treatment interruption.
In this study, we screened a library of 200,000 compounds for their ability to activate or inhibit a receptor for serotonin, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), in a human cell line. This study identified several promising 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists, which were then further tested for their ability to inhibit the motility of flatworms. We found that the most promising compounds were isoquinoline derivatives, which inhibited both the motility and reproduction of flatworms. Our results suggest that this class of compounds may be effective for the treatment of flatworm infections.
Ectoderm and mesoderm are the two germ layers that give rise to the surface and inner tissues of the embryo, respectively. While these two layers are initially distinct, they can mix and give rise to cells that are similar to both layers in certain ways. This process is important for the formation of the surface of the embryo, as ectoderm and mesoderm cells need to be in contact to form a skin layer. However, if these cells mix too much, they can form tissues that are intermediate in their properties, which can lead to developmental problems. In this study, the authors show that a protein called ephrinB2 is important for keeping the ectoderm and mesoderm layers distinct. They found that ephrinB2 is expressed on the surface of mesoderm cells and binds to a receptor on the surface of ectoderm cells called EphB4. This binding causes the ectoderm cells to move away from the mesoderm cells, keeping the two layers separate. The authors also found that if you remove ephrinB2 from the embryo, the ectoderm and mesoderm layers mix more and give rise to cells that are intermediate in their properties. This can lead to developmental problems, as the skin layer is not formed properly. Overall, this study shows that ephrinB2 is important for maintaining the distinctness of the ectoderm and mesoderm layers, which is important for the proper development of the embryo.
In this paper, the authors investigated the relationship between autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and the folate-cysteine-glutathione (FOCM/TS) pathway. The authors used data from the autism IMAGE study, which included metabolomic data from 83 participants with ASD, 55 of their siblings, and 76 typically developing children. The authors applied Fisher discriminant analysis (FDA) and kernel partial least squares (KPLS) to the metabolomic data to identify metabolites that could distinguish participants with ASD from typically developing children and their siblings. The authors found that a combination of seven metabolites, including nitrotyrosine, tyrosine, fCysteine/fCysteine, and fGSH/tGSH/GSSG, could distinguish participants with ASD from typically developing children with high accuracy. Additionally, the authors found that a combination of six metabolites, including nitrotyrosine, tyrosine, fCysteine/fCysteine, fGSH/tGSH/GSSG, and Nitrotyrosine, could predict adaptive behavior as measured by the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Composite in children with ASD with high accuracy. These findings suggest that the FCOM/TS pathway may play a role in the pathophysiology of ASD and may be a useful biomarker for the diagnosis and treatment of ASD.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by protozoa of the genus Leishmania and transmitted by the bite of infected female sandflies. It occurs in endemic areas of the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Africa, with the highest incidence in Brazil. We analyzed 10 years of incidence data for cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil to assess spatial and temporal trends. We used Bayesian geostatistical models with spatially structured random effects at municipality level to predict the incidence in 2010 and for each year of the period 2001–2010. Our models showed a decline in CL incidence after 2005 and a stable trend for VL. We found that higher temperature, precipitation, and vegetation variables are associated with CL incidence, while temperature is negatively associated with VL incidence. Some socioeconomic factors, such as population with access to clean water and improved sanitation, were associated with lower incidence rates of both diseases. We present countrywide incidence maps for CL and VL in Brazil at a high spatial resolution, which may help in the planning of disease control programs.
The study aimed to determine the clinical differences in dengue infection between adults and children. We analyzed data from patients admitted to the Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, with laboratory-confirmed dengue infection from 2007 to 2009. We found that severe bleeding was more common in adults than children, and the children had more severe vascular leakage. The study highlights the importance of considering age when managing dengue infection, and suggests that adults may require more aggressive treatment to manage severe bleeding.
This study reports on the immune system of sooty mangabeys (SM), a chimpanzee species found in the rainforests of West and Central Africa. The authors note that SM are highly susceptible to simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection and that the virus has a wide range of coreceptors it can use for entry into host cells. The authors examined the distribution and function of coreceptors in SM, specifically focusing on CCR5 and its Δ24 mutant. They found that SM CCR5Δ24 has reduced expression on CD4+ T cells compared to wild-type CCR5, but it is still functional and is used by SIVsmm for entry. The authors also found that the Δ24 mutation does not affect SIVsmm pathogenicity in SM, but it does alter the distribution of coreceptors on different cell types. In addition, they found that the Δ2 mutation in CCR5 does not affect SIVsmm pathogenicity in SM, but it does affect viral entry into CD4+ T cells. The authors conclude that SIVsmm has a wide range of coreceptors that allow it to enter host cells, and that the distribution and function of these coreceptors can vary across different host species and strains of SIV. This study provides important information about the immune system of SM and the mechanisms of SIV infection and pathogenicity in this species.
In the study, the authors demonstrate that MEF2/HDAC9 complexes are critical for tumor suppressor activity of MEF2. They find that MEF2 interacts with HDAC9, HDAC4, HDAC5, HDAC7, and HDAC9 to repress transcription of MEF2 target genes. The authors also show that HDAC9 is the key HDAC in the complex for repressive activity. MEF2 and HDAC9 are required to maintain the poised state of gene expression in stem cells. The authors suggest that the MEF2-HDAC9 complex could be targeted for the treatment of LMS.
In this study, we performed a combination of computational and experimental work to investigate the structure of a hydrophobin film. Hydrophobins are amphiphilic proteins that are responsible for the formation of a hydrophobic film on the air-water interface. We used docking and molecular dynamics simulations to determine the structure of the hydrophobin hexamer, which is the basic building block of the hydrophobic film. We found that the hydrophobin film is composed of six protein unit cells arranged in a hexagonal lattice, forming a P6 structure. We also investigated the stability of the hydrophobic film by allowing metastable P3 and P6 symmetries to be present. We found that the presence of the metastable P3 structure significantly increased the growth rate of the hydrophobic film. Our results provide insight into the structure and stability of hydrophobic films, which may be useful for understanding and controlling the formation of hydrophobic surfaces.
In this study, we have described the molecular characterization of Threonyl-tRNA synthetase (ThrRS) from Leishmania donovani, a causative agent of kinetoplastid disease, visceral leishmaniasis. We have shown that LdThrRS is functionally essential for cell survival in L. donovani and that its inhibition by borrelidin leads to growth defects of promastigotes and amastigotes, which is consistent with the previous finding with T. brucei ThrRS. Our study has also demonstrated the strong binding affinity of borrelidin to LdThrRS and the specificity of borrelidin towards LdThrRS, with the inhibitor showing high cytotoxicity against L. donovani. These findings suggest that borrelidin may be a promising candidate for drug discovery against visceral leishmaniasis.
In this study, we have determined that the HCV poly-U/UC tract, which is known to be recognized by RIG-I, contains a U-core region that is required for recognition by RIG-I. We have also demonstrated that RIG-I recognition of this region is important for HCV recognition and signaling to the IFN-β promoter. This work provides insight into the specific RIG-I recognition site within the HCV genome and its importance in HCV recognition and signaling. This information may be useful for the development of new antiviral therapeutics that specifically target the RIG-I recognition site within HCV RNA.
This study investigates the role of eosinophils in the muscle tissue response to T. spiralis infection. The authors show that eosinophils promote muscle larval growth by enhancing glucose uptake in muscle cells via the PI3K/Akt pathway. This process is likely to be a consequence of the immune response to muscle damage. The authors provide evidence for a mechanism in which larval growth is supported when eosinophils , or eosinophil-derived IL-4 , limits STAT1 signaling that otherwise would inhibit glucose and lipid metabolism in muscle . These findings suggest that eosinophils co-opt the innate response to muscle injury to promote parasitic larval growth.
The authors of this paper investigated replication timing in human cells using DNA combing, massively parallel sequencing of newly replicated DNA, and mathematical modeling. They found that replication timing profiles from different cell lines are consistent with a model of origin firing in which origins fire in a coordinated manner, with a high degree of overlap between origins in the same replication timing compartment. They also found that the apparent replication speed is positively correlated with the average replication fork speed, which is consistent with the idea that the average replication fork speed determines the overall replication timing profile. The authors suggest that replication timing profiles may provide a new window into the regulation of replication initiation.
The slowness principle in machine learning refers to the idea that learning should be biased towards slower varying patterns in the data. This is thought to result in more robust and invariant representations, which are less affected by noise or changes in the input. The paper explores the implementation of the slowness principle in a spiking neuron model, using a combination of continuous-time and spike-based models. The authors find that the slowness principle can be implemented in a spiking neuron model using a modified Hebbian learning rule that operates on low-pass filtered versions of the input and output signals. They also find that this learning rule can be interpreted as a mechanism for trace learning, a widely used algorithm for unsupervised learning of temporal invariances. The authors conclude that the slowness principle provides a simple and biologically plausible way to implement unsupervised learning of temporal invariances in spiking neuron models.
Recent studies have demonstrated the importance of tumor heterogeneity in the development of drug resistance. This study explored the phenomenon of cooperative adaptation to therapy (CAT) and its role in therapy failure. CAT refers to the emergence of a drug tolerant phenotype due to non-linear interactions between sensitive and drug-tolerant tumor cells in mixed cell populations. The study used mathematical modeling to simulate the growth dynamics of WT and mutant cell lines in mono- and co-cultures under drug pressure, as well as the effect of phenotypic switching on drug response. The authors identified that the emergence of CAT is directly related to the presence of neighboring clonal subsets within a tumor, resulting in de-novo drug resistance after drug exposure. The study demonstrated the ability of phenotypic switching to occur in heterogenous tumors, and provided evidence supporting the hypothesis of CAT. The study used a three-dimensional nanoculture in vitro spherical growth platform to study the growth dynamics of WT and mutant cell lines in mono- and co-cultures under drug pressure, as well as the effect of phenotypic switching on drug response. The mathematical model used in this study provided a replicator dynamics model of intra- and interspecies competition, which can potentially explain how individual clones within a tumor lead to treatment resistance. The results of this study support the idea that CAT plays an important role in therapy failure, and that understanding the mechanisms underlying CAT may help inform better therapeutic interventions.
This study investigates the risk factors for seropositivity to Rickettsia conorii, a member of the spotted fever group of rickettsiae, in a population-based survey of residents in southwestern Tanzania. The study identifies age, male gender, and low population density as significant risk factors. Higher temperatures, higher elevation, and lower vegetation density were also found to be associated with seropositivity. The authors suggest that Rickettsia conorii is probably transmitted by the brown dog tick, Rhodesius sanguineus. They also suggest that the pathogen may be transmitted by other vectors, such as Amblyomma variegatum, and that it may be a reservoir host for other rickettsiae species, such as Rickettsia massiliae and Rickettsia africae. The study's findings are important for understanding the epidemiology of rickettsioses in sub-Saharan Africa and for developing effective prevention strategies.
In this study, the authors show that the monounsaturated fatty acid oleate is required for the proper induction of innate immune effectors in the nematode C. elegans. They find that animals deficient in oleate production are hypersusceptible to killing by bacterial pathogens, and that oleate treatment is sufficient to rescue this susceptibility. The authors also show that oleate is required for the expression of immune effectors that are downstream of the p38 MAPK pathway, as well as those that are regulated by the bZIP transcription factor zip-2. These results suggest that oleate is a key licensing factor for the activation of anti-pathogen responses in C. elegans.
This study describes the discovery of a new antibiotic called PC1 that targets riboswitches in bacteria. The study shows that PC1 can effectively kill S. aureus bacteria and is effective in a mouse model of mastitis, a common bacterial infection in dairy animals. The study also provides evidence that PC1's antibiotic activity is due to the inhibition of a riboswitch that controls the expression of a gene involved in GMP synthesis.
We report a study on the spatial memory and perception of place in rats and monkeys using a virtual reality (VR) setup. Our findings show that place cells in the rat hippocampus show similarity with primate place cells in that they represent a spatial context and can be modulated by task goals and visual information. However, the encoding of place information was more robust in monkeys, which may be due to their more advanced visual processing capabilities. Our findings also suggest that the use of a VR setup can be an effective way to study spatial memory and perception of place in non-human primates.
We present a spatial analysis of gene expression in the midbrain-hindbrain boundary (MHB) during mouse development. We first establish a set of mathematical models to represent the regulatory network of the MHB. We then analyze these models using both Boolean and differential equations to determine the effects of Fgf8 signaling on Wnt1 expression and the resulting sharpening of gene expression patterns. Finally, we validate our models using live imaging experiments.
The article presents a comprehensive analysis of the Theileria annulata protein p104, which has been previously identified as a novel surface protein that is required for infection in host cells. The authors provide a detailed characterization of the protein, including its structural features, subcellular localization, and function in host cell infection. They also discuss the potential applications of p104 as a target for future vaccine development.
The DDR is a signaling cascade that responds to DNA damage and controls the repair of DNA breaks. Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences located at the ends of chromosomes that undergo gradual shortening with every cell division. Telomerase is an enzyme that adds new repetitive DNA sequences to the ends of chromosomes and counteracts telomere shortening. However, the telomere length of cells is not only determined by telomerase but also by the DNA damage response pathway. In this study, the authors show that the DDR is activated in response to DNA damage, and that this activation regulates telomere length. They use a temperature-sensitive cdc9 mutant, which exhibits a longer telomere length, as an example. They show that the DDR is activated in cdc9-1 cells, and that this activation is required for telomere elongation. They then show that the DDR-dependent phosphorylation of the nPif1 protein, a regulator of telomere length, is required for telomere elongation. Finally, they show that the DNA damage-induced phosphorylation of nPif1 inhibits telomerase action at DSBs and promotes telomere elongation via BIR.
We tested four candidate antigens for the rapid detection of Ov infection using a new LIPS format that combines antigens with the high-throughput potential of Luminex. The four Ov antigens used in our assay were Ov-FAR-1, Ov-API-1, Ov-MSA-1 and Ov-CPI-1. We found that the assay was quick, simple and highly sensitive and specific with all four antigens and with a mixture of all four.
The study is a population-based evaluation of the long-term impact of weekly iron-folic acid supplementation and annual anthelminthic treatment on hematological and parasitological outcomes among women of reproductive age in rural Vietnam. The study followed a cohort of 268 women over 5 years and found significant reductions in anemia, iron deficiency anemia, and hookworm infection. The study suggests that long-term weekly iron-folic acid supplementation and annual anthelminthic treatment may be effective in controlling anemia and hookworm infection among women of reproductive age in resource-poor settings. However, the study has several limitations, including the lack of a control group and the potential for bias due to missing data. The study highlights the need for further research to confirm the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
In this study, we have investigated the role of the glycoprotein gp150 in the expression of MHC class I molecules on the surface of EBV-infected cells. We found that gp150 interferes with the trafficking of MHC class I molecules to the cell surface and with the presentation of antigens to CD8+ T cells. Our study provides insights into the mechanism by which EBV evades recognition by CD8+ T cells and highlights the potential of targeting gp150 as a therapeutic strategy.
Chlamydia is a group of bacteria that can cause a variety of diseases in humans and animals. One of the key proteins that help these bacteria invade host cells is Tarp. Tarp is a secreted protein that binds to actin in the host cell and helps the chlamydiae enter the cell. In this study, the authors have determined the structure of Tarp from several different chlamydial species. They have found that although the structure of Tarp is similar across different species, there are also important differences that may be responsible for different pathogenic properties. The authors also report on the function of a specific domain of Tarp that is necessary for efficient entry of chlamydiae into host cells.
The current study presents a new methodology for the examination of fecal samples from bovines (cattle and water buffaloes) for the presence of schistosome eggs. The new technique, named FEA-SD, involves the use of ethyl acetate to remove bulk debris from the sample, which subsequently allows the eggs to be more easily visualized. The study showed that the FEA-SD technique is an effective method for determining the prevalence and intensity of S. japonicum infections in bovines. The new technique is also less expensive and time-consuming compared to other methods, such as qPCR. The study also demonstrated that the FEA-SD technique can also be used to examine fecal samples from other ruminant hosts of S. japonicum, such as goats. Overall, the FEA-SD technique presented in this study provides a valuable new tool for the examination of S. japonicum infections in bovines and other ruminants.
The Lepre1H662A/H662A mouse model, which was created by replacing exon 16 of Lepre1 (a gene that encodes a subunit of prolyl 4-hydroxylase) with a homology directed repair cassette containing a stop codon, was found to display anemia, reduced collagen cross-linking, and reduced bone mineral density. This was consistent with the phenotype observed in patients with X-linked dominant prolyl 4-hydroxylase deficiency. Collagen analysis revealed a reduction in the α-1 chain of type I collagen and an increase in the α-2 chain of type I collagen. This led to a decrease in the fibrillar collagen content and increased fibril diameter. Additionally, there was an increase in the HP and LP cross-links in type III collagen, which are markers of post-translational modifications of collagen. These findings suggest that Lepre1 plays an important role in collagen cross-linking and bone mineralization.
The transposable element P (TE) was recently discovered in the fruit fly Drosophila simulans, which is closely related to D. melanogaster. The P-element is a selfish genetic element that can invade a population and spread rapidly. This is the first known occurrence of a P-element in a species of Drosophila other than D. melanogaster. The P-element was found in 18 different strains of D. simulans collected in Europe, Africa, and North America between 2006 and 2013. The TE was found to cause a hybrid dysgenesis phenotype in some crosses between different populations of D. simulans, which is similar to the dysgenesis phenotype caused by the P-element in D. melanogaster. The spread of the P-element was accelerated by human movement of fruit, which likely increased the frequency of genetic exchange between different populations of D. simulans. The discovery of the P-element in D. simulans highlights the importance of understanding the evolution and spread of TE in order to better understand the ecology and evolution of fruit flies.
A simple, inexpensive, and easy-to-use method to mark mosquitoes for mass release has been developed using the fluorescent chemical rhodamine B. This technique, called "rhodamine B sugar-feeding", involves treating sugar syrup with rhodamine B powder to create a fluorescent sugar feed for mosquitoes. Rhodamine B sugar-feeding successfully marked both male and female mosquitoes, allowing them to be distinguished under fluorescence for at least 4 days, and with up to 95% success rate when marking males. The method was also shown to be safe for both the mosquitoes and the environment, with no significant impact on the males' survival, body staining, or seminal fluid marking, or on the females' mating success. Rhodamine B sugar-feeding has the potential to be used in both male-based and male-female-based methods for controlling mosquito populations.
The study shows that peptides derived from a portion of the CD28 dimer interface can inhibit IL2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α gene expression and lethality caused by the superantigen SEB in vivo and in vitro. The study also provides evidence that a CD28 homodimer interface mimetic peptide can block the binding of SEB to CD28 and thereby inhibit lethality and cytokine gene expression. The study suggests that CD28 is required for the full toxicity of SEB and that it engages the receptor through its β-strand ( 8 ) /hinge/α-helix ( 4 ) domain.
The paper describes a study on the Wnt signaling pathway and its role in self-renewal and differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs). The authors used various techniques, including Western blotting, qRT-PCR, flow cytometry, and genetic manipulation, to investigate the effects of Wnt signaling on ESCs. They found that Wnt signaling is required for self-renewal of ESCs and that the Wnt inhibitor BIO can reduce the expression of pluripotency markers. They also found that Wnt signaling can promote differentiation of ESCs into neurons and that the Wnt inhibitor BIO can enhance this differentiation. The authors conclude that Wnt signaling plays a crucial role in both self-renewal and differentiation of ESCs.
In this article, the authors studied the immune response of dengue virus (DENV) infection and its effect on the pDC (plasmacytoid dendritic cell) population in patients. They found that DENV infection caused an increase in pDC frequency and activation, which was associated with higher levels of interferon-alpha (IFN-α) and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) expression. They also demonstrated that activated pDCs play a protective role against DENV infection in monocytes, but not in natural killer (NK) cells. The authors suggest that pDCs could be a potential target for dengue vaccine development. Overall, this study provides important insights into the immune response to DENV infection and the potential role of pDCs in the host defense against this virus.
Inflammatory diseases like tuberculosis (TB) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are characterized by an imbalance between inflammatory and anti-inflammatory processes. TNF-related proteins, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), TNF receptors (TNFRs), and lymphotoxin-α (LTα) are important mediators of inflammation. The role of TNF-related proteins in inflammatory diseases has been extensively studied, but the exact mechanisms of action remain unclear. In this study, we used mathematical modeling to investigate the role of TNF-related proteins in inflammatory diseases. We developed a mathematical model that describes the dynamics of TNF and TNFRs, as well as the regulation of their expression and activity. The model also includes the role of LTα and TNF receptor fusion proteins (TRFPs) in modulating TNF-related proteins. We used the model to simulate the dynamics of TNF-related proteins in different inflammatory diseases and to investigate the effects of different anti-TNF treatments. Our results suggest that TNF-related proteins play an important role in inflammatory diseases, and that anti-TNF treatments can have significant effects on the dynamics of these proteins. We also identified several important parameters that can affect the dynamics of TNF-related proteins, including the levels of TNF and TNFRs, the activity of LTα, and the expression of TRFPs. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of TNF-related proteins in inflammatory diseases, and may help guide the development of more effective anti-TNF treatments.
We have designed a pipeline to identify and characterize human retrogenes using low-coverage genomes from the 1000 Genomes Project. Our pipeline was able to identify 193 RDVs (retrocopy deletion variation) in 500 individuals from 5 populations. We compared the expression of 11 ancestral retrogene transcripts that undergo deletions in some individuals and found 9 retrogenes that have significant expression differences between populations.
Cysticercosis is a disease caused by the larval stage of the tapeworm Taenia solium, which affects the central nervous system. In this study, the authors compared the immune responses and inflammation in different locations of the cysticerci, such as parenchyma, meninges, or both. They used brain samples from 11 pigs infected with T. solium and found differences in the inflammation and immune responses depending on the location of the cysticerci. Specifically, the inflammation in the parenchyma was significantly increased after treatment with praziquantel, while the inflammation in the meninges was not. The authors also found differences in the degree of disruption of the blood-brain barrier in the different locations of the cysticerci. They suggested that the differences in the immune responses and inflammation in different locations could contribute to the differences in treatment efficacy between parenchymal and subarachnoid cysticerci.
Ghana has a history of yaws transmission and currently reports cases of the disease. A recent study was conducted to investigate the etiology of skin lesions in 90 children aged 5-17 years, who were enrolled in the study from 30 communities in two districts of Ghana where mass drug administration for trachoma had previously been conducted. Samples for treponemal serology and lesion PCR were collected from all children. Syphilis serology was negative in all children. PCR for T . pallidum ssp pertenue was negative in all children, but Haemophilus ducreyi DNA was detected in 9 lesions. In these communities, previously treated for trachoma, there was no evidence of ongoing transmission of yaws. H . ducreyi was associated with a proportion of skin lesions, but the majority of lesions remain unexplained. Integration of diagnostic testing into both pre and post-MDA surveillance systems is required to better inform yaws control programmes.
This study investigates the potential of two Jak kinase inhibitors, ruxolitinib and tofacitinib, to prevent HIV from establishing a reservoir in long-lived memory CD4+ T cells. The study found that both drugs can reduce the frequency of memory CD4+ T cells harboring integrated HIV DNA, but only ruxolitinib can significantly decrease HIV RNA production from these cells. The study also found that ruxolitinib can increase the frequency of HIV-specific CD8+ T cells and reduce the frequency of HIV-specific CD4+ T cells. The study suggests that ruxolitinib may be a promising candidate for further development as a long-term HIV therapy.
The relationship between the gut microbiome and baculovirus infection in lepidopteran insects was studied. Baculoviruses were found to increase gut microbiota loads in the host. A virus-induced increase in gut microbiota was found to enhance the pathogenicity and virulence of baculoviruses. A positive correlation between the abundance of gut microbiota and the time to death was observed. The viral response to gut microbiota was found to be mediated by the IMD pathway. Gut microbiota contributed to the success of baculovirus infection by degrading the extracellular matrix. Additional studies are needed to identify bacterial elements that contribute to the success of baculovirus infections. The study highlights the importance of considering the role of the gut microbiome in the study of host-pathogen interactions and the use of baculoviruses for the biocontrol of insect pests.
In this study, the authors identified the gene OSD1, which controls entry into the second meiotic division in the sexual plant Arabidopsis thaliana. By combining a mutation in OSD1 with two other mutations that affect key meiotic processes, they created a genotype called MiMe in which meiosis is totally replaced by mitosis. This finding represents a significant step towards understanding and engineering apomixis, a process in which sexual plants reproduce asexually through seeds. The authors argue that OSD1 is a key component of apomixis and that its function is conserved throughout the plant kingdom. They also highlight the potential applications of apomixis in agriculture and the importance of understanding its underlying mechanisms.
In this study, we examined the utility of tissue specific protein-protein interaction networks in the prioritization of disease-causing genes. We used the disease-tissue association matrix from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) human tissue expression database to generate tissue specific PPI networks. We then used these networks in combination with a gene prioritization algorithm to identify genes that are likely to cause specific diseases. We found that using tissue specific PPI networks in combination with a prioritization algorithm improved the accuracy of the algorithm in predicting the causative genes of specific diseases. This highlights the importance of considering tissue specific information when prioritizing disease-causing genes.
The goal of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of different insecticide deployment strategies in controlling malaria. The study first compares the effectiveness of sequential use, mosaic use, and mixture use. The results show that the effectiveness of each strategy depends on the specific combination of insecticides used. Additionally, the study finds that sequential use is more effective when the insecticide used in the second round is more effective against the mosquito population with resistance to the insecticide used in the first round. The study also finds that mosaic use is more effective when the insecticide used in the first round is more effective against the mosquito population with resistance to the insecticide used in the second round. Finally, the study finds that mixture use is more effective when the two insecticides used have different modes of action.
The transcriptome of salivary glands of the blood-sucking insect Rhodnius neglectus has been studied using next-generation sequencing. The resulting 5,705 coding sequences were characterized into putative housekeeping, secreted, unknown, transposable element, and viral product classes. The secreted class was further organized into 24 subclasses, including lipocalins, nitrophorins, and antigen-5. The presence of serine proteases in this group, including metalloproteases, serpins, and trypsin-like proteases, was particularly noteworthy. The results of this study will contribute to our understanding of hematophagy in blood-sucking insects.
In this study, we used microarray analysis to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different bacteria species in the food source. We then performed functional tests on these genes to determine their role in the nematode's response to the bacteria. We found that genes involved in defense and metabolism were up-regulated in response to different bacteria species, suggesting that these processes are important in the nematode's response to bacteria. We also found that some genes had a significant effect on the nematode's fitness, which was measured using life tables. This suggests that some genes are functionally important and play a role in the nematode's response to different bacteria species in the food source.
The study explores the role of cell-cell contact in regulating the development of mammalian embryos. Specifically, the study suggests that noise in gene expression is essential for ensuring the robust organization of the developing embryo. The study proposes that noise, driven by cell-cell contact, can correct mis-expressions in cells that have relocated and can ensure that all cells of the embryo are correctly specified. The study also suggests that noise-driven cell fate switches can occur even after the formation of the TE and ICM lineages, and that these switches are necessary to ensure the robust development of the embryo. Finally, the study proposes that noise-driven switches in cell fate can occur in a stochastic manner, but that the magnitude of noise required to drive these switches is dependent on the position of the cells in the embryo.
This article describes a computational method for designing antibodies that recognize multiple antigens. The method uses the Rosetta software to design antibody sequences that can bind to different antigens with flexibility, allowing them to be adapted to changing targets. The authors show that the method is effective at designing antibodies that are polyspecific, with the ability to bind to multiple antigens with high affinity. They also compare the designed antibodies to antibodies encoded in the germline, and find that they are similar in sequence and structure. The authors suggest that this method can be used to design antibodies for use in immunotherapy and other applications.
In this study, we present a mathematical model for the movement, social interactions, and phase change of solitarious and gregarious locusts, a population of insects that live in large aggregations called hopper bands. We use a continuum model, which allows us to calculate the dynamics of the locusts as a function of their density and other parameters. We find that the locusts exist in a stable, uniform state until they reach a critical density. At this point, a phase transition occurs, and the locusts suddenly become gregarious and form dense, compact bands. We also find that the critical density depends on the biological parameters governing the social interactions between the locusts, and we provide a formula for this dependence. Our model suggests that locust populations can be controlled by keeping the density below the critical density.
Here we present a study on the mechanism of fusion of viruses from the flavivirus genus, such as TBE virus, and show that a prehairpin intermediate is involved in the interaction of the virus with target membranes and in the subsequent hairpin formation. We demonstrate that the initial target membrane binding occurs through a subset of the E protomers that are in their prehairpin conformation, and that the interaction of these subunits with the target membrane stabilizes the prehairpin form of E. This leads to the disassembly of DIII and the relocation of the FP loop, a process that is prerequisite for hairpin formation and fusion completion. We suggest that the initial interaction of the virus with target membranes is likely to occur via multiple copies of the E protomer, with each protomer binding to a single target membrane. Our data suggest that the fusion of TBE virus involves a similar mechanism to that of alphaviruses, with the virion dimer dissociation into a monomeric prehairpin intermediate before hairpin formation and fusion completion.
Extinction is a serious challenge to biodiversity, and we need to understand its causes to prevent further losses. There are many factors that may contribute to extinction, including climate change, habitat loss, and competition with other species. Plants are particularly vulnerable to extinction because they have slow growth and reproduction rates, and they are often dependent on specific environmental conditions. Scientists have developed several tools to identify vulnerable plant species, including the Red List of Threatened Species from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), which categorizes species as vulnerable (VU), endangered (EN), critically endangered (CR), extinct in the wild (EW), or extinct (EX). In this study, scientists used the IUCN Red List to identify vulnerable plant species in two different regions: the United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa. They found that the proportion of vulnerable species was much higher in South Africa than in the UK, and they identified several factors that might contribute to this difference. These factors included the age of the species, the number of species in the region, and the rate at which new species are evolving. The scientists used detailed phylogenetic data to understand the evolutionary history of the species in South Africa and to identify the factors that might be driving extinction. They found that the evolutionary history of the species was closely linked to their current vulnerability, and they suggested that species that evolve rapidly are less likely to go extinct. Overall, the study suggests that there are many factors that might contribute to the vulnerability of plant species, and that understanding these factors is critical to developing effective conservation strategies.
Our findings suggest that the protein kinase Btk and its downstream effector Vav1 are involved in mediating the recruitment of F-actin and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) to the phagocytic cup, leading to the maturation of the phagosome. This process is important for the efficient internalization of phagocytic targets and may contribute to the intracellular survival and replication of Candida albicans. Additionally, our results suggest that the NADPH oxidase complex may require Vav1 to generate reactive oxygen species during the phagocytic process. These findings have implications for the development of new drugs that target phagocytosis and host defense against infections.
Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a major public health concern in sub-Saharan Africa, where it has caused numerous outbreaks with significant morbidity and mortality among humans and livestock. Madagascar experienced a large outbreak of RVF in 2008-2009, with evidence of a wide-spread, heterogeneous epidemic. The identification of at-risk environments is essential for effective surveillance and targeted control of RVF. We used multivariate logistic regression models to identify factors associated with RVF infection in cattle and humans in Madagascar. Our study shows that the risk of RVF infection is associated with high cattle density, large surface of permanent wetlands, and high rainfall. We also found that RVF transmission may be attributed to both vectorial and direct transmission pathways, with possible differences in the relative importance of each transmission pathway in different eco-climatic zones. The identification of at-risk areas is essential to focus surveillance and control efforts, and to target areas with the highest transmission risk.
We show that Rnq1 carries multiple regions of sequence homology and shared conformational elements. While some of these elements may be responsible for Rnq1's role in yeast metabolism, they also appear to be involved in its role as a prion protein. Rnq1 has been shown to be a prion protein in yeast and humans, and its deletion results in a loss of [PIN+], a prion state that is required for prion propagation. The authors identify several potential prion domains in Rnq1, including three regions of high sequence homology and a β-strand that is shared by all three regions. They show that all three regions have the ability to propagate a prion state, but that a single β-strand region alone is not sufficient. The authors also show that the Rnq1 prion domains can be transmitted across the yeast cell membrane, and that this transmission involves a recognition element.
In this study, we investigated the use of deep learning for population genetic inference in Drosophila melanogaster. Specifically, we used a deep neural network to infer demographic parameters such as effective population size and selection coefficients based on summary statistics derived from the genome. We found that deep learning performed well on simulated data and was able to provide estimates that were generally more accurate than those obtained using the existing ABC method. However, deep learning was not effective in inferring demographic parameters from the actual data. We also observed that deep learning performed better on summary statistics that were more informative for demographic inference, such as the number of segregating sites, than on summary statistics that were less informative, such as the Tajima's D statistic. These results suggest that deep learning has the potential to improve population genetic inference, but more work needs to be done to understand how to optimize the performance of deep learning algorithms for this task.
We have found that HPV16 oncoprotein E6 causes delayed ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of FancD2. HPV16 E7 increases FancD2's stability by blocking p53-dependent ubiquitylation. Furthermore, HPV16 E6 and E7 cause decreased FancD2 foci formation after DNA damage. HPV16 E6 and E7 also decrease DNA damage-induced phosphorylation of ATM and ATR at Ser428 and Ser556, respectively. Our study suggests that HPV16 oncoproteins contribute to genome instability by decreasing FancD2 stability and phosphorylation.
This study evaluated the effectiveness of Mectizan treatment in reducing onchocerciasis transmission in a focus of Southern Mexico. Using multiple methods, including entomological and serological surveys, the study found that transmission of onchocerciasis in the Southern Mexico focus has been interrupted. Specifically, the study found that the number of infective blackflies in the focus is below the threshold of one infective fly per 2,000 flies tested, the seasonal transmission potential (STP) is zero, and the prevalence of Ov16 antibodies in children is below the cutoff established by OEPA. These findings suggest that the parasite population in the Southern Mexico focus is likely to be on the path to local extinction.
This study characterizes a new pheromone-dependent pathway in Listeria monocytogenes that promotes aggregation and survival in host cells. The study finds that a protein-protein interaction between PrfA and PplA is necessary for secretion of a pheromone that promotes bacterial aggregation and survival in host cells. The study also finds that the pheromone-dependent pathway is not important for bacterial growth outside of host cells, but is important for bacterial growth in host cells. This study provides important insights into the mechanisms by which L. monocytogenes survives and causes disease in host cells.
Using an in vivo genome-wide screen of transposon mutants and complementation, we identified novel ROS resistance mechanisms in V. cholerae . Mutants that conferred ROS resistance in a mouse model of infection were isolated from NAC- mice and were complemented immediately after isolation. The complementation restored the mutation rate and enhanced the colonization capacity in NAC- mice without increasing the colonization capacity in NAC+ mice. The complementation also restored catalase production, which is known to be a ROS resistance mechanism. The complemented strains had a mutation frequency and catalase production similar to wildtype strains and a capacity to colonize NAC- mice similar to wildtype strains. These results suggest that the complemented strains, which have acquired a wildtype genotype, are adapted to ROS stress in the NAC- mice and have evolved to overcome ROS stress. This study provides a framework for future analysis of the adaptive responses of bacteria to different stresses, which may lead to new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of infectious diseases.
This study uses a genetic screen to identify mutations in the Mlh3 DNA mismatch repair (MMR) protein that affect crossing over during meiosis. The authors construct 60 Mlh3 mutant variants and analyze them for their ability to complement MMR and crossing over defects caused by an mlh3Δ mutation. They find that 23 mutations are MMR+, 32 mutations are MMR- and null for crossing over, and 4 mutations are MMR- and exhibit a partial crossing over phenotype. The authors also use molecular modeling to provide insight into the effects of these mutations on the structure and function of the Mlh3 protein. They find that the MMR- defective mutations tend to cluster in regions important for Mlh3-Mlh1 interaction, while the null crossing over mutations tend to cluster in regions important for nicking activity. Finally, the authors use whole-genome sequencing to analyze the genome-wide effects of the mlh3-32 and mlh3-D523N mutations on crossing over and find that they cause an increase in the number of COs and a decrease in the length of CO tracts.
A study exploring the impact of host contact structure on the outcome of competition between two pathogens, when one strain has slightly increased fitness against the other. The study uses a mathematical model that captures the key features of a host population infected by a pathogen and models the evolution of the two pathogens. The study finds that heterogeneity in host contact structure can reduce the likelihood of reversion to the wild type. The effect is strongest when the fitness difference between the two pathogens is small, and when a large fraction of the host population is infected by the resistant pathogen at the start of treatment. The study suggests that the effect may be due to the impact of host contact structure on the competition phase after treatment. The study concludes that understanding the effect of host contact structure on competition dynamics is important for understanding the evolution of pathogens, particularly in the context of drug resistance. The study highlights the importance of considering the host contact structure when developing strategies to combat the spread of pathogens.
The study of complex diseases such as autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is often hindered by the lack of understanding of the underlying genetic mechanisms. To address this, our study utilizes a novel approach that uses Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly) as a model organism to investigate the relationship between gene interactions and the development of ASD-like phenotypes. Using a combination of computational and experimental techniques, we identified 210 unique genes that have been implicated in ASD, and we focused on a subset of these genes that have a well-documented role in neural development. We then used Drosophila genetics to study the interactions between these genes in vivo, specifically in the context of neural development. Our results show that when certain genes are interacting, they can lead to the development of ASD-like phenotypes in flies, including impaired neural development and social behavior. These findings suggest that gene interactions may play an important role in the development of complex diseases like ASD, and they provide a starting point for further research into the underlying genetic mechanisms.
A recent study published in Science by Lucina Cimadevilla and colleagues, titled "Anterograde transport of CD8+ T cells to the brain during acute cerebral malaria", examines the role of T cells in cerebral malaria, a severe form of the disease that affects the brain and is caused by Plasmodium falciparum. The study uses two-photon transcranial microscopy to track CD8+ T cells, which are known to have a role in the immune response to malaria, in the brain of infected mice. The study finds that CD8+ T cells are able to migrate into the brain and accumulate in areas where the parasite is present, and that this migration is dependent on a molecule called EZR. The study also finds that CD8+ T cells are able to survive in the brain, despite the lack of oxygen and the presence of inflammatory molecules. The study provides important insights into the role of CD8+ T cells in the immune response to malaria and may help to inform the development of new treatments for the disease.
The study aimed to determine the burden of tungiasis in Vihiga County, Kenya. It was a cross-sectional study conducted in 21 villages in 3 sub-locations in Vihiga County. A total of 437 participants aged 5 years and above were clinically examined for tungiasis. The prevalence of tungiasis was 21.5% (95% CI: 17.7-25.3%). The cases were analysed and visualized in a map form. Multivariate analysis suggested that the occurrence of tungiasis was associated with variables that indicated low economic status (like monthly income of Ksh ≤ 1000, earthen floor and lack of toilet facilities), age of participant ≤14, no regular use of closed footwear, and common resting place inside the house. Tungiasis is an important health problem in Vihiga County occasioned by the low economic status of the people affected. Factors that point to poverty contribute to the occurrence of tungiasis in Vihiga County. These findings suggest a need to design control strategies for tungiasis that are cost effective and easily accessible.
We used computational modelling to study the transport of auxin and cytokinin in the root of Arabidopsis thaliana and their role in patterning the vascular tissues. The model suggests that an auxin-cytokinin feedback loop generates a cytokinin-depleted region at the xylem pole of the stele, which leads to the formation of an auxin maximum at the same site. This pattern is robust against noise and perturbations and is maintained even when auxin and cytokinin are treated independently. We found that an auxin circuit between the procambium and pericycle cells is responsible for this patterning. We also found that pericycle cells on opposite xylem poles compete for auxin and that this competition leads to the alternating initiation of lateral roots. Our results suggest that the auxin-cytokinin feedback loop generates a coordinated pattern of hormone fluxes at the scale of a tissue, which can be robust against perturbations and generate a pattern that is sensitive to the geometry of the tissue.
In this study, we identified that CREB-B is the dominant form of CREB proteins in the locust brain and that PKA regulates CREB-B activity through phosphorylation. We further demonstrated that NPF2 plays a long-term role in locomotor activity by negatively regulating CREB-B activity. We found that NPF2 inhibits the expression of NOS, a gene involved in the regulation of locomotor activity, by repressing the activity of CREB-B. Our findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of locomotor activity and suggest a novel role of NPF2 in the regulation of locomotor activity.
In this study, we analyzed the genome-wide distribution of the zygotic transcription factor ZLD using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) in early embryos of Drosophila melanogaster. We identified 3,638 ZLD-bound regions in the genome, with 2,410 regions bound specifically at cycle 8, 1,085 at cycle 13, and 443 at cycle 14. These ZLD-bound regions were found in all chromosomes, with a higher number of regions on the X chromosome. ZLD-bound regions were found in a wide range of genomic features, including promoters, 3′-untranslated regions, and introns, but not exons. The ZLD-bound regions showed a significant enrichment for sequences containing the transcription factor binding motif of the TAG team, as well as for several other motifs. In addition, the ZLD-bound regions were found to be in close proximity to 246 genes, which were highly expressed in the early embryo. The ZLD-bound regions at cycle 8 were associated with a lower level of expression at cycle 14, while the ZLD-bound regions at cycle 14 were associated with a higher level of expression at cycle 14. These results suggest that ZLD may play a role in regulating gene expression during early embryonic development.
We constructed a comprehensive network of clock-related protein interactions in yeast and predicted their temporal dynamics. We systematically analyzed the network to identify dynamic protein interactions. We identified 109 new interactions and successfully validated 86% of them in mammalian cells. We found that PPP1Cα is a negative regulator of CLOCK/BMAL1-mediated transactivation. Our data should be a valuable resource for studying molecular events within the circadian system with so far uncharacterized posttranslational mechanisms being especially interesting.
The paper presents the three-dimensional structure of the nematode protein ABA-1, a member of the family of tandemly repeated proteins known as NPAs. These proteins are found in a variety of nematodes and are believed to play important roles in the transport of small lipids. The structure of ABA-1 reveals a compact, helical protein with two distinct pockets, one of which appears to be a potential binding site for fatty acids. The authors discuss the potential functional implications of the structure and suggest that it could be useful in developing drugs against parasitic nematodes.
Ciguatera is a type of fish poisoning that occurs throughout the tropics, particularly in vulnerable island communities such as the developing Pacific Island Countries and Territories (PICTs). Ciguatera is caused by the consumption of coral reef fish contaminated by ciguatoxin and related toxins from dinoflagellates (microalgae) and cyanobacteria. Taking into account under-reporting, in the last 35 years an estimated 500,000 Pacific islanders might have suffered from ciguatera. This level of incidence exceeds prior ciguatera estimates locally and globally, and raises the status of ciguatera to an acute and chronic illness with major public health significance. To address this significant public health problem, which is expected to increase in parallel with environmental change, well-funded multidisciplinary research teams are needed to translate research advances into practical management solutions.
Chagas disease is a chronic condition caused by infection with the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It is transmitted primarily through the bite of infected insects called triatomines or kissing bugs. Chagas disease is endemic to South and Central America, and the parasite is found in the blood and other body fluids of infected individuals. Chagas disease can cause a variety of symptoms, including fever, weight loss, and swelling of the lymph nodes. The immune response to T. cruzi infection is a complex process involving many different types of immune cells, including T cells. Chagas disease is associated with an increase in the number of T cells in the blood and lymph nodes. However, the function of these T cells is not fully understood. In this study, we examined the function of T cells in patients with Chagas disease at different stages of the disease. We found that CD4+CD8+ T cells, which are a subset of T cells, have a higher frequency in chronic Chagas disease patients compared to healthy donors. We also found that these cells have a multifunctional profile, expressing multiple inhibitory receptors and cytokines. Finally, we found that benznidazole treatment, which is the current treatment for Chagas disease, partially reverses the exhaustion process of these cells and improves their function. These findings suggest that CD4+CD8+ T cells are an important component of the immune response to T. cruzi infection, and that benznidazole treatment can improve the function of these cells.
The authors investigate the role of phosphoinositides in seedling growth and ER stress response in Arabidopsis. They use a combination of genetic, biochemical, and molecular approaches to study the effects of mutations in the phosphoinositide phosphatases on these processes. The authors find that the mutations cause growth defects, which are complemented by heterologous expression of the phosphoinositide phosphatases. They also observe altered phosphoinositide levels and activity in the mutants, and that the mutations cause hypersensitivity to ER stress. The authors propose that phosphoinositides play a key role in seedling growth and ER stress response, and that phosphoinositide phosphatases are involved in regulating these processes.
Integrated information theory is a theoretical framework that seeks to characterize and quantify causal relationships in a system by defining and measuring a new physical quantity called cause-effect power. In this paper, the authors define a new measure called intrinsic cause-effect power (Φ) to quantify causal relationships in a system. They use this measure to investigate the relationship between reductionism and causal power in physical systems, and demonstrate that it is possible for causal power to emerge from microscopic mechanisms at a macro level. The authors also provide a theoretical characterization of macro levels of physical systems by using a set of axioms that define what it means for a level of organization to be emergent and irreducible. They use this characterization to show how different physical systems can exhibit emergent cause-effect properties at different macro levels. The authors provide a number of examples to illustrate their ideas, including a Boolean network model of the fission yeast cell cycle and a stochastic model of the propagation delay of a signal through a neuron. They also demonstrate how their framework can be used to evaluate the causal power of different spatiotemporal scales of a physical system. The authors conclude by emphasizing the importance of understanding the emergence of macroscopic properties and the causal power of physical systems, and by highlighting the limitations of reductionism as a theoretical framework.
The respiratory chain is a complex network of electron transport and energy generation in the mitochondria. It consists of four complexes (I-IV) and two electron transfer carriers (ubiquinone and ubiquinol). The chain carries electrons from the NADH produced in glycolysis to oxygen, releasing energy that is used to pump protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane, creating an electrochemical gradient. This gradient is used by the ATP synthase to generate ATP. The chain is also involved in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The chain operates in reverse under certain conditions, such as the presence of inhibitors of the chain, to scavenge excess ROS and protect the mitochondria from damage.
The article describes a theoretical model for the transport of cargo by multiple motors along a microtubule. The model is based on the stochastic master equation and is used to compute the probability distribution of the cargo displacement as a function of time, load force, and the number and types of motors. The results show that under certain conditions, mutant motors can dominate the transport behavior of the ensemble, leading to longer run-lengths even when they are outnumbered by wild-type motors. The model also introduces a mooring mechanism where motors temporarily bind the cargo to the microtubule, enhancing the probability of attachment of other cargo-bound motors. The article provides a general framework for studying the transport of cargo by multiple motors and has applications in understanding the onset and progression of motor-protein diseases.
The authors report a comparative study of the effect of the knockout of the alpha calcium channel gene (Ca2+) on behavior in mice. The study was conducted in two strains of mice, one with the knockout of the Ca2+ gene and one without. The authors compared the performance of the two strains in several tasks, including the Morris water maze, the object recognition task, and the contextual fear conditioning task. The authors found that the knockout of the Ca2+ gene had a significant effect on performance in all three tasks, with the knockout strain performing worse than the wild-type strain. The authors suggest that the knockout of the Ca2+ gene may have disrupted the processing of sensory information in the mice, leading to impaired behavioral performance. The study provides important insights into the role of the Ca2+ gene in behavior and may have implications for the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Wolbachia is a bacterium that can infect and manipulate the reproduction of mosquitoes, potentially reducing their ability to transmit diseases such as dengue. In this study, we investigated how temperature affects the reproduction and transmission of Wolbachia in mosquitoes. We found that high temperatures, especially above 35°C, had a negative impact on the ability of Wolbachia to cause cytoplasmic incompatibility, a necessary condition for Wolbachia to suppress the transmission of dengue. Additionally, high temperatures reduced the ability of Wolbachia to be inherited by offspring. These results suggest that the effectiveness of Wolbachia as a biocontrol agent in areas with high temperatures may be limited.
This study investigates adenoviruses in great apes and other non-human primates. Adenoviruses are known to cause respiratory tract infections and are commonly used as vectors in gene therapy and genetic vaccines. In this study, the authors sequenced the genomes of adenoviruses isolated from great apes, macaques, and orangutans. They found that adenoviruses in great apes are more diverse and more similar to human adenoviruses than previously thought. They also identified evidence of recombination between chimpanzee and human adenoviruses. These findings have important implications for the development of adenoviral-based vectors for gene therapy and genetic vaccines, as well as for understanding the evolution of adenoviruses.
In this work, we examined the unwrapping process of DNA from the histone core using an adaptively biased molecular dynamics (ABMD) method. We used the molecular dynamics method to study the process of DNA unwrapping from the histone core, which is a key process in the regulation of gene expression. We used the ABMD method to simulate the DNA unwrapping process, which involves the movement of DNA along a reaction coordinate that represents the distance between the two ends of the DNA. We used umbrella sampling to refine the free-energy landscape obtained from the ABMD simulations. We found that the unwrapping process is asymmetric and that the first 10 bps are unwrapped more rapidly than the next 10 bps. We also found that the unwrapping process involves the dissociation of histone-DNA contacts and that the process is stochastic. These results provide new insights into the mechanism of DNA unwrapping from the histone core and will be valuable for understanding the regulation of gene expression.
The present study is a comprehensive analysis of the localization and activity of the protein ApoD in astrocytes. We found that ApoD accumulates in the lysosomes of astrocytes and that its activity increases when these organelles are damaged. Additionally, we found that ApoD colocalizes with Rab7, a marker of late endosomes, and that its expression and activity are regulated by the mTOR pathway. These results suggest that ApoD plays an important role in protecting astrocytes from damage caused by lysosomal dysfunction.
This study is about two sand fly colonies (P. orientalis) that are different in terms of the environment from which they came and in terms of their susceptibility to Leishmania donovani parasites. The sand flies that were studied were from two different locations in Ethiopia. They were kept in the lab for several years and then they were studied. The researchers wanted to know more about how the sand flies adapted to the lab environment and how they became infected with Leishmania donovani. They used a variety of tests, including genetic testing and feeding experiments, to study the sand flies. The results of the study showed that the two colonies had different behaviors and that they had adapted differently to the lab environment. They also showed that the sand flies were highly susceptible to Leishmania donovani. The researchers concluded that more work needs to be done to understand how sand flies become infected with Leishmania donovani and how they adapt to the lab environment.
This study aimed to assess the disability caused by advanced schistosomiasis japonica, a chronic stage of the disease, and to identify its contributing factors. The study used the EQ-5D+C questionnaire to assess the health-related quality of life of 215 patients with advanced schistosomiasis japonica. The results showed that advanced schistosomiasis japonica is associated with high disability (mean DW of 0.447), with problems in self-care, cognition, mobility, and activity limitations being the main contributors. The DW was higher in those with longer duration of infection, impaired work capacity, ascites, splenomegaly, and severe hepatic fibrosis. Splenectomy was found to be a protective factor for disability. This study provides valuable data for revising the local, regional, and global burden of schistosomiasis and for evidence-based decision making in P. R. China's national schistosomiasis control program.
The study examines the distribution and prevalence of various diseases in seven tsetse-infested areas of Kenya. The study found that the prevalence of trypanosomiasis was highest in areas with high tsetse fly density and poverty levels. The prevalence of HAT was also found to be high in areas with high levels of malnutrition and poor sanitation. The study also found that the prevalence of HAT was higher in migrants than in residents of tsetse-infested areas. The study recommends that efforts should be made to reduce tsetse fly density in these areas, as well as to improve access to health care and other services.
The activation of HIV by the bipolar compound HMBA has been studied. HMBA increases the release of HIV from latently infected CD4+ T cells, causing a transient increase in HIV viral production. This occurs via the disruption of the inactive pool of the P-TEFb transcription factor complex, which is required for HIV transcription. This effect is achieved through the activation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, leading to the phosphorylation and subsequent release of P-TEFb. HMBA also affects the distribution of P-TEFb between the inactive and active complexes. This study suggests that HMBA may be used to induce HIV replication in latently infected cells, which could have potential therapeutic applications.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by a type of parasite called Leishmania. Leishmania can cause different types of leishmaniasis, and the symptoms can vary depending on the type of leishmaniasis. One of the complications of leishmaniasis is metastasis, which means that the parasite can spread to other parts of the body. Leishmaniasis caused by one type of Leishmania called LRV can be particularly difficult to treat and can cause severe complications. Researchers are trying to better understand LRV and how it causes leishmaniasis. In this study, the researchers tested different methods for detecting LRV in parasites and in tissue samples from leishmaniasis patients. They found that all of the methods worked well, but one method called dot blot was the most promising. This method could be used in the field to quickly and easily detect LRV in tissue samples from leishmaniasis patients, which could help guide treatment and improve patient outcomes.
The bacterial effectors EspFU and Tir are both required for full virulence of the intestinal pathogen EHEC. Using an EHEC strain that expresses EspFU but not Tir, we found that EspFU promotes EHEC motility and macrocolony formation on polarized human epithelial cells. These effects depend on the ability of EspFU to recruit the N-WASP signaling complex. We also demonstrated that Tir and EspFU cannot be functionally replaced by each other in the EHEC T3SS. Together, these findings reveal the distinct virulence functions of EspFU and Tir in EHEC, and suggest that EspFU may play a key role in the EHEC T3SS.
In this study, we investigated the purification of Fasciola hepatica EVs using both density-centrifugation (DC) and size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) methods. Our findings suggest that the protein composition of EVs purified using DC is more diverse and contains a greater abundance of unique proteins than SEC purified EVs. However, SEC purified EVs contained a greater abundance of proteins with more functional properties. Our results also suggest that SEC purified EVs had a higher EV purity to protein yield ratio than DC purified EVs, and that SEC purification is capable of isolating a greater number of unique proteins hit per protein when compared to DC. Additionally, our findings support the hypothesis that DC and SEC purification methods isolate different sub-populations of EVs. These results suggest that SEC purification may be a more suitable method for EV research, especially when aiming to isolate EVs with more functional properties.
The presented work is an important step in understanding the complex and dynamic processes of pattern formation and regulation during animal development. The authors have successfully used a combination of computational modeling and experimental approaches to identify the key mechanisms involved in the regulation of gap gene expression. The models developed in this study provide a valuable framework for understanding the complex interactions between regulatory inputs and gene expression patterns, and can be used to generate predictions about the behavior of the system in response to changes in regulatory inputs. Overall, the work presented in this study is an important contribution to the field of developmental biology and will be instrumental in guiding future research in this area.
This study shows that the expression of the innate immune receptor Tlr3 is upregulated in the small intestinal epithelial cells of suckling mice, but not in adult mice. This upregulation is important for protection against rotavirus infection, as evidenced by an increased resistance to infection and decreased viral replication in suckling mice. This increased protection in suckling mice appears to be due to a higher expression of IFN-λ, which in turn activates the RIG-I/MAVS pathway, leading to increased expression of antiviral proteins such as RIG-I, MDA5, and IRF7. This study highlights the importance of Tlr3-mediated innate immune signaling in protecting against rotavirus infection in suckling mice.
In this paper, we present an analysis of whole-exome sequencing data on nearly 2,000 samples collected for a case-control study of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). We find that the distribution of rare variation between cases and controls is remarkably similar, showing that ASD risk genes cannot be identified in a case-control sample of this size. These results are in keeping with previous observations that common variation does not explain the majority of the heritability of ASD . However, our study also confirms that rare variants are important for ASD risk and that there are hundreds of genes that affect liability to ASD . We find that rare variants are clustered in ancestry space and that population substructure confounds the test of association. In our study , mega-analysis has much more power than meta-analysis because it assimilates information across sites and cancels out false signals that differ in sign . However, mega-analysis is more susceptible to differences in missingness across platforms and case/control status . Despite these challenges, we find that meta-analysis is still robust to differences in missingness . In conclusion, we propose that future efforts to discover ASD risk genes should focus on combining data from multiple studies to gain enough power to detect associations.
The study aimed to determine whether genetic variations in chitinase genes are associated with an increased risk of developing eumycetoma caused by Madurella mycetomatis. The study included 112 eumycetoma patients and 103 healthy controls. The study found that a 24-bp insertion in the chitotriosidase gene was associated with an increased risk of developing eumycetoma. The study also found that variations in the AMCase gene were not associated with an increased risk of developing eumycetoma. The study highlights the importance of understanding the role of genetic factors in the development of eumycetoma and the need for further research to identify other genetic factors that may be associated with an increased risk of developing this disease.
In this paper, we discuss HSV-1 infection and the different mechanisms that the virus uses to survive within its host. HSV-1 is a neurotropic virus that causes recurrent infections of the skin and mucous membranes. It is also associated with several neurological disorders such as encephalitis, dementia, and multiple sclerosis. To understand how the virus can cause such diverse diseases, we need to examine the different ways it interacts with its host. We begin by discussing the virus life cycle and how it establishes an acute infection in the skin and mucous membranes. We then describe how the virus enters the nervous system and how it establishes a latent infection in neurons. We also discuss the different mechanisms that the virus uses to evade the host immune response and how it can persist for life in the nervous system. Finally, we highlight some of the recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms that underlie HSV-1 infection and discuss some of the new strategies for developing treatments and vaccines.
The study describes the use of mice infected with three different strains of scrapie to compare the gene expression of immune cells in the brain during early stages of the disease. The authors used a combination of immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and quantitative real-time PCR to analyze the inflammation and cellular changes in the brain. The study found that all three strains of scrapie led to similar patterns of microglial and astrocyte activation in the brain, as well as changes in cytokine and chemokine expression. The study also found that there were differences in the expression of some genes between the three strains, which could potentially have implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of the disease. Overall, the study provides valuable insights into the immune response to scrapie in the brain and highlights the importance of studying multiple strains of the disease in order to gain a better understanding of its progression and potential treatment targets.
We have developed a new coarse-grained model for chromosomes that accounts for the topological constraints arising from the compact packaging of DNA in the nucleus. The model, based on a simple lattice representation, retains the main characteristics of polymer dynamics while being many orders of magnitude more efficient in terms of computational resources. We show that, starting from a random unknotted configuration, our model accurately reproduces the large-scale properties of chromosomes observed experimentally, including the power-law decay of the mean squared displacement, the existence of a universal scaling law for the time-evolution of genomic distances, and the overall organization of chromosomes into TADs. We also predict the occurrence of transitions between distinct chromatin states and their corresponding characteristic structural features, and demonstrate that they are driven by physical interactions between loci. These results suggest that our model provides a useful framework for further investigations of the dynamics and organization of chromosomes, and for the development of new hypotheses about the physical mechanisms underlying these processes.
In the study, we have described the methodology used to identify allelic heterogeneity in eQTLs. The methodology involves a two-step approach that first identifies a set of independent eQTLs for each gene and then assesses the allelic heterogeneity of each eQTL. We have used two approaches to identify independent eQTLs: one based on linkage disequilibrium and the other based on Bayesian regression. The linkage disequilibrium approach involves grouping SNPs based on their distance from the transcription start site and then identifying independent eQTLs within each group. The Bayesian regression approach involves using Bayesian multivariate regression to identify independent eQTLs. To assess allelic heterogeneity of eQTLs, we used a custom forward stepwise regression approach, which identifies the subset of SNPs that best explain the differential effects of alleles. We have also used a custom algorithm to assess the significance of eQTL-gene associations and the reproducibility of eQTLs across multiple cell types and studies.
In this study, we describe the creation and characterization of a novel MGAT1− CHO cell line with improved susceptibility to N-glycosylation site-specific antibodies. We used a CRISPR/Cas9-based approach to generate a knockout cell line with reduced expression of MGAT1, an enzyme responsible for adding N-glycans to glycoproteins. By selecting for increased sensitivity to antibodies targeting glycosylation sites, we were able to isolate cell lines with improved susceptibility to a panel of antibodies. These cell lines produced recombinant gp120 with improved glycosylation patterns, allowing for better binding to bN-mAb PG9. The resulting cell lines were resistant to MVM infection and lacked the ability to produce virus in vitro, making them attractive candidates for vaccine production.
We determined the structure of the B. malayi T6PP enzyme in complex with trehalose 6-phosphate using X-ray crystallography. The structure was used to identify residues involved in substrate binding and catalysis, including a unique sugar-binding loop that is critical for T6PP function. We also characterized the enzyme's activity towards a variety of substrates and identified a novel inhibitor that targets this enzyme.
In this study, we present a novel computational framework to predict interstitial fluid dynamics within tumours. We use whole-tumour, ex vivo vasculature extracted from real tumour tissue to inform our model, and show that this leads to more realistic predictions than previous modelling approaches. We investigate the impact of vascular and interstitial parameters on fluid dynamics, and show that changes in interstitial hydraulic conductivity can have a significant impact on fluid dynamics. We also investigate the impact of vascular normalization therapy on fluid dynamics and show that this may not always lead to an increase in interstitial fluid pressure as previously thought. Our study provides a platform to test hypotheses regarding the tumour microenvironment and develop new therapeutic strategies.
This study describes a novel method to evaluate the potency of entry inhibitors to block HIV infection during cell-cell transmission. The authors developed a PBMC-based assay system using the human CD4 T cell line TZM-bl to quantitatively distinguish between cell-free and cell-cell HIV transmission. The assay allows the evaluation of the efficacy of entry inhibitors to prevent cell-cell transmission of HIV, as well as their effect on the two modes of transmission. The authors demonstrate that entry inhibitors have different effects on cell-free and cell-cell transmission, and that some inhibitors are more effective against cell-cell transmission. The assay provides a valuable tool to evaluate the activity of entry inhibitors against cell-cell transmission of HIV and to identify new entry inhibitors that are effective against this mode of transmission.
The provided content is a description of a computational model of attentional modulation in the visual cortex. The model consists of two layers, a "bottom" layer representing early visual areas and a "top" layer representing higher visual areas. The model uses a combination of mutually inhibitory connections between neighboring cells and feedback connections from higher-layer cells to lower-layer cells to simulate the effects of attentional modulation on firing rates and receptive field structure. The model also incorporates features such as spatial attention, feature-similarity gain, and surround suppression. The model's predictions are compared to experimental data, and the model is said to be able to explain a range of effects observed in visual attention in the brain. The model is implemented using Matlab code.
This study explores the role of the Drosophila melanogaster receptor Lat in the differentiation of lamellocytes, a specialized type of blood cell, in response to parasitic wasp infestation. The authors show that Lat is expressed in the medullary zone of the lamellocyte-producing organ, where it functions as a short type receptor in a heteromeric complex with the membrane-bound signaling molecule Dome. They demonstrate that Lat is not required for normal development, but plays a crucial role in the differentiation of lamellocytes in response to wasp infection. This study provides important insights into the regulation of blood cell differentiation in response to infection.
In this study, we investigated the patterns of recombination that occur during co-infections of two geminivirus species, Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and Tomato golden mosaic virus (ToMV). We used a high-throughput recombination assay that allowed us to generate and screen thousands of unique recombinant genomes. We found that the patterns of recombination that emerged from our experiment were influenced by several factors, including short-range interactions between nucleotides within TYLCV and ToMV genomes, long-range interactions between different regions of the TYLCV and ToMV genomes, and selection against genomic recombinants that express protein folding disruptions. We also found evidence of selection against recombinants that lacked certain nucleotide interactions within genomic secondary structures. By analyzing these patterns of recombination, we were able to identify the specific genomic regions that are likely to interact with one another and map the interaction networks encoded within the TYLCV and ToMV genomes. We believe that these results will provide valuable insights into the evolution of geminiviruses and the mechanisms by which viruses interact with one another within their host genomes.
We have analyzed substitution patterns in the genomes of human, chimp, orangutan, Haloferax volcanii, and Haloferax mucosum to understand how the epigenome affects mutation biases. We found that mutation biases are consistent between clades, with the exception of Haloferax. We found that repositioning of nucleosomes is necessary to explain the observed mutation biases. We conclude that our data suggest that the epigenome plays a causal role in shaping mutation biases, rather than being a passive bystander.
We propose a new method for identifying key positions in proteins that are dynamically important for ligand binding. Our method is based on the identification of subspaces of normal modes associated to ligand-binding conformational changes, and the effect of mutations on these subspaces. We find that residues whose mutations are found to alter the most these subspaces are defined as key positions, and are located in buried aliphatic residues mostly localized in well separated spatial regions of the protein structure. The method is not affected by any bias that can overestimate the effect of residues localized close to the binding-site. Furthermore, we find that only ∼10% of the key position residues correspond to active site residues. Our results provide distinct and complementary information respect to studies based on the identification of sequential and structural active site similarities among homologous proteins. The proposed method can be applied to identify key position residues whose mutations affect oligomerization binding constants and stability, inter-protein interactions, and allosteric responses among others.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is a bacterium that causes tuberculosis, a global disease affecting millions of people. FBA (fructose-bisphosphate aldolase) is a key enzyme in Mtb's metabolism, but its role in virulence is unclear. Here, the authors use genetic engineering to create a strain of Mtb that lacks functional FBA (Δfba). They find that Δfba is not attenuated in vitro, and it does not affect virulence in a mouse model of tuberculosis. However, they find that Δfba is sensitive to an FBA inhibitor and that it is not essential for growth and survival in macrophages. The authors suggest that FBA may not be a useful target for tuberculosis drug development.
We present here a novel strategy to generate a stable knockout of mTXNPx, a mitochondrial peroxiredoxin from the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum. This parasite is the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis, a severe and often fatal disease in humans and dogs. We have engineered the parasite to express a truncated form of mTXNPx, lacking its first 26 amino acids, which are responsible for mitochondrial localization. This strategy resulted in a viable parasite line that expresses the truncated form of mTXNPx (ΔmTXNPx) instead of the full-length protein, allowing us to study its function. In addition, we have generated a mutant ΔmTXNPxC81S line, in which the active site cysteine of mTXNPx has been mutated to serine. Both lines are able to grow normally in culture, indicating that mTXNPx is not essential for parasite survival. We have characterized the redox state of ΔmTXNPx and demonstrated its ability to act as a chaperone, preventing the aggregation of citrate synthase, a protein that becomes denatured at high temperatures. Furthermore, we have shown that ΔmTXNPx can replace the full-length protein in an in vivo setting, preventing oxidative stress in macrophages infected with L. infantum. Our results provide important insights into the role of mitochondrial peroxiredoxins in the survival and pathogenesis of Leishmania parasites.
Histoplasmosis is a fungal disease that primarily affects the lungs and is more common in AIDS patients. This study evaluated the performance of the on-site urine antigen test ALPHA-HUAg for diagnosing histoplasmosis in a cohort of HIV patients in Mexico. The study found that the ALPHA-HUAg test had a high specificity (97.5%) but a low sensitivity (67.1%) when compared to the gold standard of histoplasmosis diagnosis, which is a combination of blood and bone marrow cultures and histopathological examination. The study also found that the ALPHA-HUAg test was useful for early diagnosis of histoplasmosis, but the culture-based approach should still be used for definitive diagnosis.
In this study, the authors used metagenomics to identify novel viruses in fecal samples from pediatric patients with diarrhea. They found 10 novel viruses in 10 out of 12 samples, including seven picornaviruses, one astrovirus, one norovirus, and one enterovirus. The authors also identified one novel virus that was not classified in any known virus family, which they named "Tahiti Picornavirus." The Tahiti Picornavirus was found in four out of 12 samples and was the most abundant virus in two samples. This study highlights the potential of metagenomics for identifying previously unknown viruses in fecal samples from pediatric patients with diarrhea, which can help improve diagnosis and treatment of viral diarrhea.
Arboviruses, which are spread by mosquitoes, are causing more illnesses and deaths worldwide. In the Dominican Republic, a 2015 dengue outbreak was followed by a 2016 Zika outbreak. Researchers used data from the Dominican Republic's health system to study the two outbreaks and compare their age and sex distribution. They found that dengue infections were more widespread in males, while Zika infections were more widespread in females. They also found that the reproductive number (R0) for Zika infections was higher in females, which could be due to differences in how men and women seek medical attention for the virus. The researchers recommend using media campaigns and screening to prevent Zika infections in women of reproductive age during outbreaks. They also suggest that future research should focus on the long-term health effects of Zika infections in people who have been infected with dengue in the past.
PARPs and PARGs are enzymes that add and remove poly ( ADP-ribose ) modifications to nuclear proteins. While PARPs add poly ( ADP-ribose ) to proteins, PARGs remove it. In a recent study, PARP1 and PARP2 were found to be important for plant DNA damage responses. It has been found that PARP2 confers most of the poly ( ADP-ribose ) ation activity in Arabidopsis, while PARG1 is responsible for removing poly ( ADP-ribose ). The results of this study provide a better understanding of the roles of PARPs and PARGs in plant poly ( ADP-ribose ) ation.
The study reports the discovery of a set of kinases that act together to regulate a specific type of neuronal synapse formation and function in the nematode C. elegans. The study shows that the RPM-1 kinase is a key regulator of this process and that it acts through a specific set of kinases to modulate the JNK pathway. The results have important implications for understanding the role of kinases in synaptic function and dysfunction, as well as for the development of novel therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
We identified two independent mutations in the C . briggsae trr-1 gene that lead to a synthetic feminization of XX animals, despite the fact that the trr-1 gene is not required for female development in wild type animals. The mutations were identified by screening a set of C . briggsae lines for feminization after injection of dsRNA. We found that trr-1 mutants were feminized after injection of dsRNA against the fem-2 gene. The mutations lead to an increase in the expression of the fog-3 gene, a gene that is required for sperm production. We propose that the loss of trr-1 function leads to the activation of the repressive activity of TRA-1, causing the feminization of XX animals. The mutations also lead to an increase in the expression of the trr-1 gene, which is consistent with a feedback mechanism to compensate for the loss of trr-1 activity.
We have presented a comprehensive study on the subject of “Integrated Information Theory”. Our research aims to explore and understand the meaning and application of this theory in the context of information theory and physics. We have reviewed the background and definitions of information theory, entropy, and related concepts, providing a solid foundation for understanding the concepts of integrated information theory. We then presented a detailed introduction to the history and evolution of integrated information theory, including its connection to thermodynamics and the second law of thermodynamics. We also explored the relationship between information, entropy, and thermodynamics, and the significance of integrated information theory in this context. Finally, we presented a discussion of the various applications of integrated information theory in physics, including its connection to information theory, entropy, thermodynamics, and the second law of thermodynamics. We also explored the relationship between information, entropy, and thermodynamics, and the significance of integrated information theory in this context. Our research contributes to the understanding of the concepts of information theory, entropy, and integrated information theory, and their applications in the fields of physics and information theory.
This study presents a spatial logistic regression analysis to evaluate the spatial distribution of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) prevalence in two Ugandan districts, Kaberandaido and Dokoro. The study used data from 2004 to 2017 and included environmental, climatic, and social factors that could affect HAT prevalence. The results showed that the movement of infected untreated livestock from endemic areas was likely to have introduced HAT into Kaberandaido and Dokoro districts. The study also identified the distance to the closest livestock market and health centre as well as minimum land surface temperature and normalized difference vegetation index as significant factors affecting HAT prevalence. Overall, the study highlights the importance of considering spatial factors in HAT research and in the development of control strategies.
This study shows that the basic assumption of ecological stability being equivalent to species richness is not accurate when considering complex interactions between species. In particular, the authors found that weak interactions lead to stability while strong interactions lead to instability in unstructured food webs. The authors also found that the spatial structure of the web does not affect the stability, but the type of interactions does. They suggest that the stability of complex systems should be studied using a combination of theoretical and empirical approaches.
The study aimed to investigate the spatial heterogeneity of Coxiella burnetii seroprevalence in humans and cattle in a rural livestock-keeping area of western Kenya. The study found that cattle and humans in the study area had a seroprevalence of 10.5% and 2.5%, respectively. The study also found that the risk factors for Coxiella burnetii exposure differed by species. For cattle, the origin of the animal, precipitation, and vector contact were found to be significant risk factors, while for humans, the risk factors were age, ethnicity, and contact with cattle. The study highlights the importance of considering the transmission cycle and spatial patterns when investigating Coxiella burnetii seroprevalence and the development of control interventions.
We have identified and characterized three vasa-like genes (Smvlg1-3) in the schistosome worm S. mansoni. Vasa is a DEAD-box RNA helicase that is essential for germ cell differentiation and maintenance. In S. mansoni, Smvlg1 and Smvlg3 are members of the PL10 subfamily of the DEAD-box RNA helicase family and share a similar exon-intron structure, while Smvlg2 is not. All three genes are expressed in all developmental stages of S. mansoni and their expression is particularly high in the IVLE and in adult females. WISH analysis confirmed that Smvlg1 and Smvlg3 are expressed in the ovary of the adult female. The identification and characterization of these vasa-like genes provides a basis for further functional analysis of the germ cell differentiation and maintenance processes in S. mansoni.
In this study, we identify a critical role for the Hippo signaling pathway in the development and maintenance of heart valves. We show that the transcriptional co-repressor VGLL4 is a crucial regulator of heart valve development. We demonstrate that VGLL4 is expressed in endothelial cells and valve tissue and that its knockout in endothelial cells leads to abnormal heart valves, including proliferation and apoptosis. We also show that VGLL4 is not required in neural crest-derived valve interstitial cells. We further show that VGLL4 regulates the expression of known Hippo pathway target genes, including CTGF and Cyr61. Our study suggests that the Hippo signaling pathway is required for proper heart valve development and maintenance.
Our study aims to address two major issues with recent claims of recurrent soft sweeps in natural populations. First, we find that using H-statistics to infer the frequency of soft sweeps is prone to statistical error, as it does not take into account the effects of population demography. Second, we show that the frequencies of soft and hard sweeps are not robustly differentiated, as they both fall within the credible interval of the neutral model. Our results highlight the importance of considering demographic and selection model misspecification in the analysis of population genomic data.
This study investigated the role of a receptor called NPYLR1 in regulating the behavior of female mosquitoes following a blood meal. The study found that NPYLR1 is sensitive to two types of peptides called Head Peptide-I and sNPFs, but is not necessary for mosquitoes to inhibit host-seeking behavior following a blood meal. The study also found that NPYLR1 is not involved in other important mosquito behaviors such as locomotion, egg-laying, sugar-feeding, and blood-feeding. Overall, the study provides new insights into the role of NPYLR1 in mosquito behavior and suggests that other factors may be more important for regulating host-seeking behavior following a blood meal.
This article describes a research study that used satellite-derived environmental data and field surveys to map the risk of schistosomiasis in a region of Nigeria. The environmental data included temperature, rainfall, elevation, and vegetation index. The study found that temperature and rainfall were not suitable for predicting the risk of schistosomiasis, but elevation and vegetation index were significant factors. The study also identified proximity to water as a significant factor in the risk of schistosomiasis. The final risk map was based on the best outcome in context of the frequency and transmission of schistosomiasis and classifies the study area into four suitability risk classes. The results of the field survey records of schistosomiasis prevalence confirmed a similar pattern as the spatial epidemiology of schistosomiasis in the region. The study concludes that satellite-derived environmental data can be used to determine schistosomiasis risk levels in an area using relevant techniques and predictive risk maps can be generated for different areas with different climatic conditions and combined to form country-wide or regional maps. The model can also be used to assess control interventions and treatment programs.
The necrotizing process of meningitis is not well understood, but it is known to involve a complex cascade of events that results in the death of neurons and glial cells. One key factor that is thought to play a role in this process is the bacterial toxin pneumolysin (PLY). PLY has been shown to cause neurotoxicity in vitro and in vivo, and it has been implicated in the pathogenesis of meningitis in both mice and humans. In this study, the authors used a mouse model of meningitis to investigate the role of PLY in the necrotizing process of meningitis. They found that PLY caused a significant increase in the release of glutamate, which is a neurotoxic amino acid. They also found that PLY caused a significant decrease in the number of synapses and dendrites in neurons. The authors propose that the release of glutamate and the synaptic and dendritic changes that they cause are major factors in the necrotizing process of meningitis.
The life cycle of the human papillomavirus (HPV), which causes cervical cancer, involves a complex series of events within host cells. The current study identifies a critical role for cell cycle progression in HPV infection.
In this study, we provide the first evidence that the thermally dimorphic fungus Paracoccidioides marneffei produces microRNAs (miRNAs) and milRNAs that are differentially expressed in mycelial and yeast phases. We also show that dcl-2, encoding a putative Dicer-like protein, plays a key role in miRNA biogenesis in P. marneffei. The milRNAs produced by P. marneffei are conserved among thermal dimorphic fungi and may be important regulators of gene expression in these fungi.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is a mosquito-borne virus that has caused outbreaks in many parts of the world. Researchers in France studied the ability of three different mosquito species from the Pacific region to transmit ZIKV. They found that the mosquitoes were able to get infected with ZIKV, but they had low rates of transmitting the virus to other mosquitoes or to humans. These findings suggest that the mosquitoes may not have played a significant role in the spread of ZIKV in the Pacific region. However, more research is needed to fully understand the role of mosquitoes in the transmission of ZIKV.
This manuscript describes a novel method for studying RNA structure in mammalian cells, called Targeted Structure-Seq. Using the example of the Xist lncRNA, the authors demonstrate that Targeted Structure-Seq can accurately predict RNA structure, identify evolutionarily conserved regions, and characterize the impact of antisense oligonucleotides on RNA structure.
The paper provides a comprehensive review of the current state of knowledge on the prediction of complex diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, and neurodegenerative diseases, using genomic data. The authors highlight the importance of developing robust and reliable methods to predict disease outcomes and emphasize the need for personalized medicine. The paper also discusses the challenges facing the field, such as the complexity of the data and the need for large-scale studies. The authors conclude by outlining future directions for research and emphasizing the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration to address the challenges facing the field.
The study aimed to compare the sensitivity and specificity of three different diagnostic tests, Rapid Diagnostic Test 1 (RDT1), Rapid Diagnostic Test 2 (RDT2), and Commercial Antibody Rapid Diagnostic Test (CART). The tests were used to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus in samples taken from patients suspected of having COVID-19. The results showed that RDT2 had the highest sensitivity and specificity among the three tests, with sensitivity of 82.4% and specificity of 98.7%. CART had sensitivity of 83.9% and specificity of 97.4%, while RDT1 had the lowest sensitivity and specificity of 64.5% and 96.4%, respectively. These results suggest that RDT2 and CART are more reliable in detecting SARS-CoV-2 than RDT1.
Chagas disease is a common tropical disease that affects millions of people worldwide, particularly in Latin America. Triatominae (kissing bugs) are the main vectors of Chagas disease, which can be transmitted through blood transfusions, organ transplants, and congenitally from mother to child. The disease is caused by the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite, which affects the digestive, cardiac, and nervous systems. In this article, the authors provide an overview of Chagas disease and the various methods used to diagnose and treat the disease. They also discuss the importance of vector control measures, such as insecticide spraying and education campaigns, in preventing the spread of Chagas disease. The authors highlight the need for continued research and development of new treatments and diagnostic tools to better understand and control Chagas disease.
We present the complete genome sequence of the murine bacterial pathogen C . rodentium ICC169 strain EX-33. This bacterium is a member of the Enterobacteriaceae family, which includes several important human pathogens such as E . coli and Salmonella enterica. C . rodentium is a natural pathogen of mice and rats, but it does not cause disease in humans. EX-33 was isolated from a mouse in 1981 and is one of the most extensively studied C . rodentium strains. The complete genome sequence of EX-33 will be useful for understanding the genetic basis of C . rodentium pathogenesis and host specificity. The genome sequence is 4,457,135 bp long and consists of one circular chromosome (4,375,288 bp) and one circular plasmid (81,847 bp). The genome sequence has been determined by a combination of 454 and Illumina sequencing technologies. The genome contains 4,258 predicted protein-coding genes, 110 predicted RNA-coding genes, and 60 predicted pseudogenes. The genome sequence provides insights into the genetic basis of C . rodentium pathogenesis and host specificity. The genome sequence will be useful for identifying virulence genes and understanding the molecular mechanisms of C . rodentium pathogenesis and host specificity. The genome sequence will also be useful for identifying genes that are unique to EX-33 and for comparing the genome of EX-33 with other strains of C . rodentium.
We developed a novel analytical solution for the mean, variance, skewness, and kurtosis of protein expression distributions based on the assumption that the rate of transcription is the rate-limiting step of protein production. This solution is exact for a specific set of parameter values, and can be used to estimate these parameters if the distribution moments are measured. We show that our method, which we call ACES (Analytical Method for Parameter Estimation by Stochastic Moments), is fast and flexible, allowing it to estimate the parameters of a wide range of distributions in a fraction of the time required by the stochastic simulation method. We also show that ACES can be used to estimate the ratios of CDRCs, which are often difficult to measure experimentally, from the moments of the distribution.
In this study, we tested a vaccine strategy to protect against monkeypox, a Category A pathogen, using recombinant bovine herpesvirus 4 (BoHV-4) viral vectors. Three genes, A29L, M1R, and B6R, encoding orthologous proteins of the smallpox vaccine, were introduced into a BoHV-4 vector and tested in vivo in mice. M1R provided the best protection against mortality and morbidity. BoHV-4 vectors were found to be safe and well tolerated. These results provide a "proof-of-concept" for the use of BoHV-4-based vectors as potential vaccines for Category A pathogens.
This study reports a new decapping mechanism in trypanosomatids, a group of unicellular parasites that cause various diseases in humans and animals. The study identifies a novel decapping enzyme, ALPH1, which is present in the nucleus of trypanosomes and functions to remove the 5' cap of mRNA prior to its translation. The study also reveals that the ALPH1 decapping mechanism is unique and differs from the canonical decapping mechanism used by most eukaryotic organisms. The findings of this study have important implications for the understanding of gene regulation and the development of new therapeutic strategies for trypanosomatid diseases.
This paper explores the role of Arx in the development of beta-like cells in glucagon-producing cells. Glucagon-producing cells in the alpha-cells of the pancreas can revert to beta-like cells upon the loss of Arx. This process is thought to involve the reactivation of Ngn3, Rfx6, and Ptf1a. The authors demonstrate that glucagon-producing cells in Arx mutants can revert to beta-like cells in vivo and in vitro. These results suggest that Arx plays a crucial role in maintaining the lineage of alpha-cells and that it is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of diabetes.
In this paper, the authors investigate the mechanism of re-replication initiation at origins of replication in yeast, specifically at ARS317 and ARS1238. They find that the presence of RIP elements adjacent to origins reduces the distance between ARS317 and ARS1238, causing them to preferentially re-initiate replication at their endogenous origins. They also find that this re-initiation is dependent on the presence of Mcm2-7, and is not affected by the presence of Sir2 or Fkh1. The authors also use array CGH to show that re-initiation of origins leads to preferential replication of the re-initiated origin. These findings suggest that origins of replication may function as independent replication initiation sites, and that the presence of RIP elements may promote this function.
This study revealed that amebic colitis is the most common form of amebiasis in HIV-1-infected MSM in Japan. High fever, leukocytosis and high CRP were associated with extraluminal amebiasis, which is the most severe form of amebiasis. Although luminal agents are not approved for use in Japan, metronidazole treatment alone was sufficient to eradicate amebiasis in HIV-1-infected individuals. However, IA recurred frequently in patients with HCV infection.
The study presented here is a novel intervention strategy for controlling human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) in the Mandoul focus of Chad. The strategy combines vector control of tsetse (Glossina fuscipes fuscipes) with medical screening and treatment of cases. The intervention was implemented in 2014 and continued until 2015. It resulted in a dramatic decrease in the number of new HAT cases detected. The study used mathematical models to analyze the impact of the intervention on HAT transmission. The models were developed to include the impact of vector control, medical screening, and treatment of cases. The models predicted that the intervention would lead to a decrease in HAT transmission, which was confirmed by data from 2014 to 2015. The study also highlights the importance of accurate epidemiological data to understand the impact of intervention strategies. The study recommends that vector control should be combined with medical screening and treatment of cases as an effective strategy for controlling HAT transmission in certain settings.
Imported strongyloidiasis is increasingly being diagnosed in non-endemic countries, especially in Spain, who receives an important number of immigrants coming from endemic areas, although information comes from short series of cases [7–11] . Here we present a cohort of 1245 patients with imported strongyloidiasis in Spain: most of them were asymptomatic immigrants coming from South America, 82 . 2% had eosinophilia at the time of diagnosis, 6 . 4% of them had some kind of immunosuppressant condition, almost half of them had another infectious disease ( being Chagas disease the most frequent one ) , serology allowed the diagnosis in most of the cases , and treatment with ivermectin was associated with better outcome . It is important to note that, although the percentage of patients with eosinophilia was very high ( more than 80% ) , the eosinophilia could be due to other causes , since there were patients co-infected with other helminthiases such as schistosomiasis, soil-transmitted helminths, or filarial nematodes . Hence , the percentage of patients with eosinophilia could be overestimated . As in other imported strongyloidiasis series , travelers were a minority of the total study population , although they were the ones with higher risk of developing a severe presentation . Strongyloidiasis in travelers has been described as a severe infection , with some cases of hyperinfection syndrome, which is the most severe form of strongyloidiasis . In our study, 5 patients had a severe presentation , although none of them were travelers. It is important to note that, although parasitological techniques have been improving ( concentration techniques , Haar-Möbius , Baermann , fecal culture ) , these techniques are not sensitive enough , in particular when the parasite load is low . Serological techniques have been developed during the last decades in order to improve the diagnostic capacity of the tests, being ELISA the most common technique . Although ELISA has a good sensitivity, it has a low specificity, and many false positives can occur . There are very few studies comparing the efficacy of different techniques for the diagnosis of strongyloidiasis, and most of them have been performed in endemic areas . Our study includes different serological techniques, and we found a higher sensitivity with the IgG ELISA and the RIPA test, being the latter the one with a higher specificity . Nevertheless, there is no consensus regarding the best technique for the diagnosis of strongyloidiasis, and the definition of cure is also controversial. Currently, the most common treatment is with ivermectin, which seems to have a higher efficacy than albendazole . Moreover, monitoring the cure is not standardized, and the most common technique is stool examination , with a high proportion of false negatives . In our study, almost 10% of the patients had a treatment failure, although in only 5 patients the diagnosis was made by parasitological examination, so the real percentage of failure could be higher. In summary, imported strongyloidiasis is increasingly being diagnosed in non-endemic countries, and a high number of patients comes from endemic areas. The diagnosis is challenging, and different serological techniques can be useful. Treatment with ivermectin is the most common, and monitoring the cure is not standardized.
To effectively and safely vaccinate a population, it is important to determine the optimal inoculum dose that provides good protection while minimizing side effects. This study used mathematical modeling to predict the level of immune protection and morbidity for different inoculum doses of two pathogens, influenza A virus (IAV) and human parainfluenza virus type 3 (HPIV3), in mice. The study found that immune protection and morbidity can increase with inoculum dose but that there is a point at which further increases in dose can lead to decreased immune protection. The study also found that immune protection and morbidity can depend on the specific pathogen and the host species. These findings can help guide vaccine development and administration to ensure that vaccines are safe and effective.
The authors use a combination of experimental methods and computer vision to analyze the heterogeneity of gene expression in filaments of the photosynthetic bacterium Anabaena. They find that while expression is highly variable between filaments, it is relatively more constant within individual filaments, and that this variability is due to lateral communication between filaments. The authors also show that this variability is highly dependent on the particular protein being expressed, and that it can be affected by mutations that affect the ability of cells to communicate laterally. These findings provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the heterogeneity of gene expression in bacterial filaments and suggest that lateral communication is a key factor in determining the expression patterns observed.
We have recently investigated the shift of the JEV genotype from GIII to GI in China and the possible role of GI viruses in infecting pigs. We analyzed the JEV-seroprevalence ratio of GI/GIII in pigs from 12 provinces in China using the antibody-sandwich ELISA. We found that GI infection was dominant in pigs in China, with an average GI/GIII ratio of 1.87. We also compared the replication kinetics of GI and GIII viruses in three in vitro cell models including mosquito C6/36 cells, chicken DF-1 and porcine PIEC cells. The results showed that GI viruses replicated more efficiently than GIII viruses in DF-1 and PIEC cells, particularly in DF-1 cells with 22.9–225.3 fold higher replication titers than GIII viruses. We further confirmed the enhanced replication efficiency of GI viruses in young domestic ducklings using ducklings as an animal model. Our results suggest that birds, particularly young domestic ducklings, may play a crucial role in JEV genotype shift.
The function of C . albicans biofilm formation is highly dependent on the interplay of six TFs. In our study, we have explored the phenotypic interactions between these TFs by constructing multiple heterozygous and double heterozygous mutant strains. The data reported herein indicate that the majority of these mutants are phenotypically unstable and display decreased biofilm densities relative to wild type and single mutant strains . The decreased biofilm densities of the mutants and the highly correlated changes in expression of other biofilm TFs indicated that the function of the network is cooperative. We also analyzed the spatial and topological features of the biofilm formed by C . albicans heterozygous and double heterozygous mutants and found that they are indistinguishable from wild type. Finally, we found that the C . albicans biofilm network displays the characteristics of a small world network . Our study provides further evidence that the interplay of TFs is important for the proper function of C . albicans biofilm formation.
In this study, we characterized the amino acid synthesizing enzyme aspartate synthetase (AS-A) in the parasite Leishmania infantum. We found that AS-A is not essential for parasite growth in vitro and in vivo, but is required for optimal growth in the absence of exogenous aspartate. We also found that LiAS-A, the AS-A enzyme from L. infantum, has a higher affinity for glutamine than previously reported for other trypanosomatids. We generated targeted gene knock-outs of AS-A in L. infantum and found that parasites lacking both copies of AS-A grow normally in vitro, but are unable to grow in the absence of exogenous aspartate. We also found that the null mutants do not present any growth or infectivity defect in vivo. Overall, our results suggest that AS-A is not a suitable drug target candidate in L. infantum and therefore, with regard to drug development, such a protein target becomes pointless against Leishmania.
The study aimed to investigate the association between epilepsy and exposure to Toxocara canis (Toxocara spp.) in a systematic manner. We included studies with different designs, such as population-based studies, case-control studies, and cohort studies. The studies were selected based on the quality of the study design and the availability of relevant information. We performed a meta-analysis of 38 studies from 19 countries to assess the association between epilepsy and exposure to Toxocara spp. We found a positive association between exposure to Toxocara spp. and the risk of epilepsy. The association was stronger in children than in adults, and in studies with a hospital-based design than in population-based studies. We also found that the association between exposure to Toxocara spp. and epilepsy was stronger in studies with a case-control design than in cohort studies. Overall, our results suggest that exposure to Toxocara spp. is associated with an increased risk of epilepsy. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms underlying this association and to develop effective interventions to reduce the burden of epilepsy associated with exposure to Toxocara spp.
The Atm-Crebbp-Mest-MiR-335 axis is a novel pathway in DNA damage response. The pathway is controlled by Atm kinase, which phosphorylates Creb, leading to the transcription of Mest. MiR-335 then inhibits the expression of CtIP, which is required for DNA repair. This pathway is important for the DNA damage response in cells and may be a target for cancer therapy.
In this study, we conducted a computational and experimental investigation of Theory of Mind (ToM) in a situation of social interaction. We first developed a recursive Bayesian model of mentalizing in repeated social interactions, which we named k-ToM. We then used this model to predict peoples' trial-by-trial choices in a gambling task, in which participants played against another human or an artificial mentalizing agent. We found that people could win against artificial mentalizing agents only when they believed they were playing against another human being. This effect was due to a difference in peoples' trial-by-trial response to feedback, which shaped their predictions regarding the next best move. This social framing effect was driven by mentalizing, since it was absent when participants were given a non-social task framing. We also found that participants' trial-by-trial choices were more likely to be explained by mentalizing processes only in the social condition. Finally, we found that peoples' ToM sophistication is variable across individuals, and is likely to be upper-bounded (2-ToM) . Our findings provide strong evidence for the added-value of mentalizing in repeated social interactions. They also indicate that mentalizing may serve as a key mechanism for interpreting the behaviour of others, and that it is specific to social interactions. Our work paves the way for a better understanding of the cognitive processes involved in social learning, and for the development of more sophisticated models of social intelligence.
The article "A Fast and Accurate Algorithm for the Inference of Conditional Dependencies from Large-Scale Biological Networks" provides a new, efficient algorithm called FastGGM for inferring conditional dependencies from large-scale biological networks. Conditional dependencies indicate the relationship between two variables given the effect of another variable, and they are crucial for understanding the regulatory mechanisms of biological systems. Gaussian graphical models (GGM) are a popular statistical method for inferring the conditional dependencies of a large number of variables. However, the current existing algorithms for GGM inference are computationally expensive and cannot handle large-scale networks. The new algorithm FastGGM presented in this article solves this problem by speeding up the computation process while maintaining the accuracy of the inference. The article demonstrates the effectiveness of FastGGM by applying it to two real biological datasets and constructing gene/protein networks for each dataset. The authors also provide a detailed explanation of the algorithm and its advantages, as well as a comparison with existing methods. Overall, this article provides a valuable resource for researchers working with large-scale biological networks and conditional dependencies.
We investigated how the MSN network behaves under the simplest assumptions about the input, using a computational model. We found that MSNs are driven to fire by weak excitatory input from the cortex and thalamus, and that the network exhibits clear behavioral states, such as excitability and inhibition. We also found that the network can exhibit a range of firing patterns, depending on the connectivity and input parameters. The network showed clear phase transitions, with a sharp increase in the frequency of firing during excitatory input, and a sharp decrease in the frequency of firing during inhibitory input. We also found that the network exhibits a range of behaviors, including rhythmic firing and bursting, depending on the connectivity and input parameters. These findings suggest that the MSN network plays an important role in processing sensory information and generating motor output.
The authors investigate the role of Sec4p in endocytosis in budding yeast. Sec4p is a member of the exocytic SNARE complex that facilitates membrane fusion during exocytosis. The authors show that Sec4p is also required for endocytosis, the process by which cells take up material from their environment. They find that Sec4p interacts with the endocytic SNARE complex and that this interaction is required for endocytosis. They also show that Sec4p regulates the activity of the endocytic motor Myo5p.
In this study, we developed a new method for modeling liver injury in mice caused by acetaminophen (APAP) that uses machine learning and computer simulation. The model, called Mouse Analog, is based on a previously developed model of human liver injury. By using machine learning techniques, we were able to refine the model and improve its accuracy. We then validated the model by comparing its predictions to experimental data from mice. Overall, our study demonstrates the potential of machine learning and computer simulation to be used for predicting liver injury in mice caused by APAP.
The study aimed to quantify parasitemia in infected children during the first year of life. We measured parasite burdens in the blood of 51 children with three different diagnostic controls during the follow-up. The results showed that group A neonates presented the highest levels of parasite burden. The parasite burden was lower in group B infants who were diagnosed at 6 months of age. Group C babies were diagnosed by serology at around 1 year old and exhibited the lowest parasitemia.
Our understanding of gene regulation in bacteria is essential for designing and improving genetically modified organisms. We used computational models to understand how cells make decisions about protein synthesis. We found that the cell can make trade-offs to balance its need for different proteins, and we can use this understanding to design better genetic circuits. We also found that these trade-offs can be influenced by the environment in which the cell is growing. This helps us understand how genetic regulation can be fine-tuned to achieve specific goals.
Regulation of seed germination by RSM1 and RSM2 through their interaction with HY5 and HYH.
This article provides a lay summary of a scientific paper that describes the characterization of the electron transfer chain in the mitochondria of yeast. The authors found that the complex I subunit Nb8mΔ, which was previously identified in yeast, has a functionally distinct proton pumping domain that is connected in series with the primary pump in the PP domain of the membrane arm. The study sheds light on the structure and function of the electron transfer chain in the mitochondria of yeast.
Fever is a regulated increase of the body temperature caused by both infectious and non-infectious causes. The present study investigated whether fever has a positive role in modulating antigen binding affinity to antibodies. Two antibodies and their corresponding antigens from dengue virus and Plasmodium vivax were employed in the study. The results demonstrated that the binding affinity of the antibodies increased significantly at 40°C compared to physiological and pathophysiological temperatures. The observed increase in binding affinity was due to both an entropic contribution to binding and to an enhancement of the koff rate. The study suggests that fever may have an adaptive role in improving antibody affinity for pathogen antigens and highlights the importance of thermal priming in enhancing protein-protein affinity.
The study of cortical flow patterns in living cells is an important area of research. To study these patterns, researchers typically use mathematical models to simulate the behavior of actin filaments. One of the key properties of actin filaments is their compliance, which describes how much they stretch when subjected to force. In this study, researchers developed a new model of actin filament compliance that takes into account the fact that filaments are stiffer in extension than in compression. They also included a parameter that accounts for the fact that filaments are stiffer in compression when they are shorter than a certain length. Using this new model, the researchers simulated how cortical flow patterns change depending on the length of the actin filaments. They found that when the filaments are too short, the flow patterns are disrupted and the filaments cannot be maintained in a steady state. On the other hand, when the filaments are long enough, the flow patterns are more stable and the filaments can maintain their shape over time. This study provides important insights into the behavior of actin filaments and how they contribute to cortical flow patterns in living cells.
The natural variation in response to glucose and fructose in plants has been explored using quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. The glucose-sensitive QTL, GSQ11, was identified as a novel gene named ANAC060. The ANAC060 gene encodes a nuclear-localized transcription factor that is a member of the NAC family. The ANAC060 gene is highly expressed in Arabidopsis leaves, and the expression is regulated by glucose. The expression of ANAC060 is induced by glucose, and the process requires an intact ABA signaling pathway. The ANAC060 gene is also involved in the ABA-mediated sugar signaling pathway. The ABA-mediated sugar signaling pathway inhibits ANAC060 expression, and the negative feedback loop is established by ABI4. The ANAC060 gene determines the sugar sensitivity of plants, and the mutant with a defect in the ANAC060 gene exhibits reduced sensitivity to glucose and fructose.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a bacterial species that can cause opportunistic infections in humans. It can form biofilms, which are communities of bacteria that are embedded in a protective matrix of extracellular polymeric substances. Biofilms allow bacteria to persist in environments that are unfavorable for their growth. The ability of P. aeruginosa to form biofilms has been attributed to the presence of two-component systems, including the Gac/Rsm system. The Gac/Rsm system consists of a histidine kinase (GacA) and response regulators (RsmA and RsmZ) that form a complex. The Gac/Rsm complex regulates the expression of genes involved in various functions, such as the synthesis of extracellular polymeric substances, biofilm formation, and the expression of virulence factors. The Gac/Rsm system is also involved in the regulation of the HptB/HsbA/HsbD/HsbR/SadC system, which is involved in the synthesis of the signaling molecule c-di-GMP. In this study, we have shown that the Gac/Rsm system is required for the expression of hsbD, which encodes a protein involved in c-di-GMP synthesis. We have also shown that the Gac/Rsm system is required for biofilm formation, and that the Gac/Rsm system is involved in the regulation of the expression of genes involved in various functions, such as the synthesis of extracellular polymeric substances, biofilm formation, and the expression of virulence factors.
This paper presents an approach to train a model to generate natural language text using deep learning techniques. The model is trained on a large dataset of English text and learns to generate text that is coherent, fluent, and semantically correct. The paper provides an overview of the architecture of the model and how it is trained, as well as some preliminary results on the quality of the generated text.
The study by Mathy et al. (2017) investigated the relation between the phase of the climbing fiber (CF) burst and the amplitude of the somatic spikelet count in in vivo preparations of the inferior olive (IO). However, the model used in this study did not include any dendritic compartment, which is important for the generation of the CF burst. We developed a three-compartmental model that includes a dendritic compartment, and investigated the relation between the phase of the CF burst and the somatic spikelet count in both in vivo and in vitro preparations. Our model suggests that the phase-dependency of the somatic spikelet count is lost at high-frequency oscillations in IO neurons. However, the phase-dependency is preserved in a limited range of STO amplitudes in the ensemble of coupled cells, where the firing window is more clearly present. Our model predicts that the phase-dependency is lost when stimulating the entire network of coupled cells, suggesting that the phase-dependency is a property of the ensemble, rather than individual IO neurons. We also suggest that gap-junctional coupling between IO neurons is responsible for the phase-dependency in the ensemble, and that it serves as a normalizing factor for STO amplitudes and AP spikelet counts across cells. Our findings provide new insights into the phase-dependency of the CF burst and somatic spikelet count in IO neurons, and have important implications for understanding the neural coding of sensory information in the cerebellum.
Iron is essential for human life, and its metabolism is tightly regulated to maintain the right amount in the body. Iron is absorbed from food, transported in the blood by transferrin, and stored in the liver and spleen. The liver is the main site for iron export into the bloodstream and also plays a key role in regulating iron levels. The present study is the first to develop a quantitative model of the liver's iron metabolism, taking into account both the control of iron absorption and export. The model was constructed using ordinary differential equations, and simulations were performed using COPASI. The model successfully recreates the steady-state behavior of iron metabolism in the liver and the response of the system to dynamic perturbations. The model also predicts the response of transferrin receptors to increasing pulses of extracellular transferrin-bound iron. The results of the study highlight the importance of understanding the regulation of iron metabolism in the liver, and the model developed here can serve as a useful tool for studying the mechanisms underlying this regulation.
This is an article about the mechanism of nuclear transport. The authors describe a coarse-grained molecular dynamics model of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and its role in the transport of proteins across the nuclear envelope. They explain the biophysical basis of the model, its limitations, and the assumptions made. They also describe the results of the model and discuss the implications for the mechanism of nuclear transport.
The authors present a mathematical model for determining the median infectious dose (AID50) of a pathogen in a nonhuman primate (NHP) model, using a titration procedure. The model takes into account the number of animals and rounds of infections, and the probability of success and failure. The authors describe two cases where the model was used to determine the AID50 of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). They conclude that their model is useful for determining the AID50 in NHP models, and can be used to minimize animal use in research.
The auditory system of insects is a prime example for the rapid processing of information in a simple nervous system. To cope with changing environments, many insects, including crickets, rely on neural adaptation. Here, we show that adaptation in the auditory system of crickets is surprisingly complex. In particular, we find that adaptation to a bimodal stimulus distribution suppresses the ability of the auditory system to transmit information about low-intensity sounds, which are likely to be the most relevant signals for the animal. These findings suggest that adaptation does not necessarily result in improved information processing, but rather may represent a trade-off between suppressing background noise and enhancing the representation of the most intense signals.
Researchers report an in vitro study of the role of polybasic domains in prion propagation. They created three mutant versions of prion protein (PrP) by deleting one or two of the polybasic domains and showed that they still formed ΔC-PrPSc, ΔN-PrPSc, and ΔΔ-PrPSc molecules. These molecules propagated PrP in vitro, but were less infectious to mice than wild-type PrPSc. They then showed that the three types of mutant PrPSc were able to bind to wild-type PrPC in a novel magnetic bead-based capture assay. They showed that the N-terminal polybasic domain was required for the most efficient PrPSc binding to PrPC.
In this paper, we presented a novel method for identifying the behavioral strategies of individual animals in groups based on their spatial trajectories. Specifically, we introduced the idea of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to compute the value functions of the animals' behaviors and compared them to determine their behavioral strategies. We used this method to study the thermotactic behavior of C. elegans and found that the worms exhibit two behavioral strategies, one based on temporal differences in temperature (IM) and the other based on absolute temperature (DM). We also studied the effects of ablating the temporal derivative-sensing neuron (AFD) and the absolute temperature-sensing neuron (AWC) and found that the AFD and AWC neurons are important for the DM and IM strategies, respectively. Our method provides a useful tool for studying the behavioral strategies of animals in complex environments, and it can be easily extended to study other types of behavior.
Chrysochromulina tobin, a non-dinoflagellate alga, was sequenced to generate the first nuclear and chloroplast genomes of the Chlorophyta taxonomic division. The genome of C . tobin was used to investigate the evolution of lipid bodies and the development of a unique xanthohydroxin. Additionally, transcriptomic data was generated for C . tobin and used to identify genes encoding a polyketide synthase-nonribosomal peptide synthetase and a novel antibacterial peptide. These findings provide valuable insights into the genetics of this alga and contribute to the understanding of the evolution of lipid bodies and polyketide synthesis in non-dinoflagellate algae.
We have identified a novel mouse model of human basal-like breast cancer, a highly aggressive tumor with poor prognosis. The mouse model was generated by combining multiple inactivating mutations in three important tumor suppressor genes: p53, pRb, and Brca1. This model exhibits many hallmarks of human basal-like breast cancer, including aneuploidy, genomic instability, and increased expression of genes associated with basal epithelial differentiation. Our study provides new insights into the role of pRb in breast cancer development and suggests that combined inactivation of pRb and Brca1 increases the risk of developing aggressive basal-like breast cancer.
This study provides insight into the relationship between the density of larval development sites and the productivity of individual containers used to store water in Thailand. By analyzing 125 sampled containers across three years, the authors found that the probability of a container being positive for dengue larvae and the number of larvae per container are positively related to the density of larval development sites nearby. The authors also found that the presence of piped water decreased the productivity of containers, and that the effect varied by container type. This information can be useful for public health officials trying to design and implement effective larval control strategies for dengue fever.
The gut of the nematode worm C. elegans contains intestinal neurons, which sense nutrients and integrate this information to regulate dauer formation and foraging behaviors. The Rictor/TORC2 complex is a key regulator of these phenotypes, and we find that rict-1 mutants exhibit phenotypes that mimic the effects of food deprivation and of pheromone-induced dauer formation. We show that TORC2 signaling in the gut is required to regulate dauer formation and foraging behaviors, but that it does so through different mechanisms. We find that TORC2 regulates dauer formation and foraging by modulating daf-7 and daf-28 expression in intestinal neurons, with the former being required for dauer formation and the latter for foraging. However, the mechanism by which intestinal TORC2 modulates these neurons is not yet clear.
Here we report the discovery of a set of short DNA sequences that are active in enhancing gene expression in mouse and human embryonic stem cells. These motifs were discovered through a novel computational method that combined large-scale gene expression data with the ability of individual transcription factors to recognize specific DNA sequences. We first identified a set of genes that are preferentially expressed in mouse and human embryonic stem cells compared to somatic cells and derived stem cell lines, using a novel method that combined large-scale gene expression data with evolutionary conservation. We then used a computational method that mapped the sequences of these genes to the regions of DNA upstream of their transcriptional start sites, and identified the most conserved regions as potential regulatory elements. By scanning these regulatory elements for sequences that were recognized by individual transcription factors, we identified 10 motifs that were overrepresented in the regulatory regions of pluripotency-associated genes. We then experimentally validated the activity of these motifs as enhancers of gene expression, and found that they could enhance expression of GFP reporter constructs in both mouse and human embryonic stem cells. Overall, our work demonstrates the utility of combining computational methods with experimental validation to identify transcriptional regulatory elements that are active in pluripotent cells.
VSV NΔ210 is a truncated form of the N protein of VSV that lacks the first 210 amino acids. It forms an RNA-free complex with the C-terminal region of the P protein of VSV. This NΔ210-P complex is important for the replication of VSV RNA and its stability. In this study, the structure of the NΔ210-P complex was determined by X-ray crystallography and NMR spectroscopy. The structure revealed that the NΔ210 protein binds to the P protein by inserting its N-terminal region into a hydrophobic groove on the surface of the P protein. The binding of NΔ210 to P prevents the formation of higher-order structures of N and protects it from aggregation. The structure of the NΔ210-P complex also suggested a mechanism for the initiation of transcription/replication. Finally, the study showed that the NΔ210-P complex is important for the stability of VSV RNA and its replication.
The visual system of the blowfly ( Calliphora vicina ) has been shown to efficiently encode motion information, a task that requires a very large amount of data processing. The current study focuses on the blowfly's visual system's ability to efficiently encode motion information. We used a computational model of the blowfly visual system to evaluate the performance of the encoding. We found that the blowfly's visual system can efficiently encode motion information, even when the input data is limited. Our results have important implications for understanding the evolution of visual systems and the processing of sensory information in biological systems.
The present study revealed that tyrosine sulfation of the sialomucin PSGL-1 facilitates the replication of the enterovirus 71 (EV71) in human T cells. The N-terminal region of PSGL-1 contains three potential tyrosine sulfation sites, Y46, Y48, and Y51, but only Y48 and Y51 are required for EV71-binding to PSGL-1. The binding of EV71 with PSGL-1 may regulate the migration of T cells. The sulfation inhibitor, sodium chlorate, significantly inhibited the binding of EV71-1095 to PSGL-1 and reduced EV71-dependent replication in Jurkat T cells. This suggests that tyrosine sulfation of PSGL-1 may be a potential target for antiviral agents.
In this study, we investigated the effects of rapamycin and other mTOR inhibitors in the treatment of leishmaniasis, an infectious disease caused by protozoan parasites. We found that high-dose rapamycin can inhibit the growth of Leishmania parasites in vitro and in vivo, and enhance immune responses to the parasites. Specifically, we found that treatment with rapamycin and one of the mTOR inhibitor GSK-2126458 can reduce the size of cutaneous lesions and the number of parasites in lymph nodes in a mouse model of leishmaniasis. We also found that treatment with rapamycin can increase the levels of the cytokine interferon gamma, which is important for anti-parasite immunity. These findings suggest that mTOR inhibitors can be used as adjuvants in the treatment of leishmaniasis. However, caution should be exercised when using mTOR inhibitors, as high-dose rapamycin can also damage parasites directly. Future studies will need to evaluate the effect of different mTOR inhibitors and rapalogs on leishmaniasis.
Our research demonstrates that ComP, a protein involved in competence, specifically recognizes DUS. The recognition of DUS by ComP is determined by the inner bases of the DUS. Our results indicate that naturally occurring variations in DUS are expected to limit gene transfer between Neisseria species living in the same environment. We used the corresponding gene sequences to create a phylogenetic tree of ComP and found that they are highly conserved among Neisseria species.
This study investigates the function of Pxl1, a protein that regulates the architecture of the actin cytoskeleton, in the septum formation of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The authors show that Pxl1 is required for the proper attachment of the septum ring to the plasma membrane, and for the correct positioning of the septum in the cell. They also show that Pxl1 is necessary for the recruitment of the cell wall synthase Bgs1 to the septum ring, and that Pxl1 and Bgs1 are required for the septum to grow properly. The authors provide a detailed description of the mechanism by which Pxl1 regulates these processes, and propose that Pxl1 plays an important role in maintaining the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton and ensuring proper septum formation in S. pombe.
A recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain was caused by two different strains of the bacterium Burkholderia mallei, according to a study published in Frontiers in Veterinary Science. The study, which is the first to use high-resolution genotyping and comparative whole genome analysis to investigate the epidemiology of an outbreak, suggests that the two strains were imported from different geographic regions. The study also reveals that one of the strains was closely related to B. mallei isolated from horses in the United Arab Emirates in 2004, providing evidence of repeated importation of the disease to the region from similar geographic sources. The results highlight the need for continued surveillance and abatement measures, even after all animal cases appear to be cleared, to prevent the re-emergence of glanders.
The paper deals with a medical study conducted in Colombia. The study focused on 43 male patients with American cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) who did not respond to treatment. The patients were infected with Leishmania braziliensis, a species that causes the most serious form of leishmaniasis. The study evaluated the parasitological features of the isolates obtained from the lesions of these patients and their possible relationship with clinical features of the lesion. The parasitological features included parasite susceptibility to Glucantime, parasite infectivity, parasite multiplication rate, and parasite survival. These features were assessed using parasite cultures and molecular techniques. The results showed that patients with lesions that did not respond to treatment had isolates with decreased susceptibility to Glucantime, decreased infectivity, decreased multiplication rate, and decreased survival. The results also showed that lesion size was not related to parasite features. These findings suggest that parasite features may play a role in the failure of treatment and that parasite features may be used to predict treatment response. The paper concludes that further studies are needed to determine the clinical relevance of these findings.
We have shown that colibactin, a siderophore synthesized by the Enterobacteriaceae, can contribute to virulence in Escherichia coli. The colibactin-encoding gene, yhsA, was cloned from the genome of E. coli K-12 MG1655 and transformed into a colibactin-deficient strain, MG1655 ΔyhsA, to generate complemented strains. These strains were tested for their ability to survive in an iron-limited medium and in competition with wild-type E. coli. The results indicate that yhsA plays a role in virulence in E. coli and suggests that it may be involved in the acquisition of iron from host cells. The findings of this study provide new insights into the role of siderophores in the pathogenesis of E. coli infections.
In this paper, we introduce a new phylogenetic model for insertions and deletions in multiple alignments, which is based on a generative model for evolving sequences with insertions and deletions. We model insertions and deletions as independent and identically distributed events occurring with a particular probability. The parameters of our model are obtained from the substitution model. Our model is non-reversible, but it is compatible with the reversible substitution model. We present an efficient algorithm for calculating the probability of a multiple alignment given a tree and our model. The algorithm is an extension of the Felsenstein peeling algorithm. We provide an implementation of our algorithm in a new version of the dnaml program, which is a part of the phylip package. We compare the performance of our algorithm with the original dnaml algorithm on simulated data and real biological data. We find that our model is able to correctly infer the evolutionary trees of real biological data, even when the number of insertions and deletions is relatively high.
Human skin is the first line of defense against viral infections, but little is known about the interactions between viruses and skin cells. In this study, we used an ex vivo human inner foreskin model to investigate the interactions between HSV-1 and skin cells, including Langerhans cells (LCs) and dermal DCs. We found that LCs take up HSV-1 and become infected, and then migrate through the dermis, where they are taken up by BDCA3+ and DC-SIGN+ dermal DCs. This process is called antigen relay, and it is critical for the immune response to HSV-1 infection. The results of this study provide new insights into the immunopathogenesis of HSV-1 infection in human skin, and may lead to new strategies for preventing and treating this common viral infection.
The paper is a detailed description of the biogenesis of Leishmania parasite-containing vacuoles in macrophages. The authors used live imaging, electron microscopy and confocal microscopy to observe the dynamic features of these vacuoles and to understand the processes involved in their formation. The paper is well-written and provides a clear overview of the different aspects of Leishmania parasite vacuole biogenesis. The authors also include a number of helpful figures and diagrams to illustrate their points. Overall, the paper is a valuable contribution to the field of intracellular parasitology.
The human immune system is essential for defense against invading pathogens. The B cells are responsible for producing antibodies, which target and destroy these pathogens. However, the immune system can become dysregulated, leading to autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis. A possible cause of this dysregulation is the mutation of B cell receptor genes. A group of researchers from the University of Pennsylvania set out to study this problem in more detail by using a genetically engineered mouse model. They found that mutations of B cell receptor genes can cause autoimmune disease, and that this occurs as a result of an increase in the number of somatic mutations of the receptor genes. They also found that the recombination of these genes is important for the immune system's function and that mutations of recombination genes can also cause autoimmune disease. These findings have important implications for understanding the genetic basis of autoimmune diseases and for developing new treatments for these conditions.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the cerebellum in correcting eye movement errors. They use a nonhuman primate model to analyze eye movement errors, which are caused by a change in the direction of a target, and how the cerebellum helps to correct these errors. The authors found that the cerebellum helps to correct these errors by generating an error signal, which is then used to adjust the direction of the eye movement. The authors also found that the cerebellum helps to correct errors caused by a change in the direction of the target by adjusting the direction of the eye movement in response to the error signal. Overall, this study provides insight into how the cerebellum helps to correct eye movement errors and how it is involved in correcting errors caused by changes in the direction of the target.
We demonstrate that human DNAJB1 can reduce cytoplasmic TDP-43 toxicity in primary cortical neurons of mice.
Chagas disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is a serious condition that affects millions of people worldwide. The most common form of transmission is through the bite of an infected blood-sucking insect called the kissing bug. There are several different genotypes of the parasite, and in this study, the authors aimed to determine the distribution of these genotypes among patients with chronic Chagas disease in Brazil. The authors used a multilocus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach to identify the genotypes of the parasite in blood samples from 65 patients with chronic Chagas disease. They found that the most prevalent genotypes were TcI and TcII, which accounted for 49.2% and 42.6% of the samples, respectively. They also found a high degree of genetic diversity among the samples, with some patients having mixed infections by multiple genotypes. The authors conclude that their findings provide important information for the development of more effective strategies for the treatment and control of Chagas disease.
In Guatemala, bats are an important reservoir for rabies virus (RABV) transmission to humans and livestock. In this study, we evaluated RABV prevalence in bats captured in three different geographic regions of Guatemala. We found that the prevalence of RABV in the bats was low (0.3%) and that only one of the rabies viruses isolated was related to the vampire bat cycle in Mexico and El Salvador. These results suggest that rabies transmission in Guatemala may be limited and that the risk of human rabies cases from bat bites may be low. However, further surveillance is needed to fully understand the extent and dynamics of rabies in Guatemala. Additionally, we recommend that local authorities increase the availability of diagnostic laboratory testing for rabies in remote areas, as well as the provision of education and outreach to the public on the importance of rabies prevention and control.
Studies on Lmna knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts have revealed a role for type A lamins in the maintenance of heterochromatin and the suppression of viral gene transcription. The type A lamins appear to form a scaffold for viral gene repression complexes that bind to heterochromatin. The type A lamins are also required for the formation of heterochromatin on viral lytic genes during productive infection. In addition, the type A lamins are necessary for preventing assembly or for removal of heterochromatin on viral DNA during lytic infection. These findings suggest that type A lamins may be exploited by HSV to keep its genome transcriptionally active during productive infection.
We have identified a new family of TvTom proteins in T. vaginalis that resemble the mitochondrial TOM proteins of other eukaryotes. These TvTom proteins are predicted to form a complex with a unique arrangement of the TOM proteins that might be required for the import of proteins across the mitochondrial membrane. We have also shown that the TvTom proteins are required for mitochondrial import in T. vaginalis. Our data suggest that the TvTOM complex is a unique evolutionary adaptation in T. vaginalis that might be involved in the import of proteins across the mitochondrial membrane.
Here, we describe eQTL mapping in purified CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from healthy donors. We identified cis- and trans-eQTLs and investigated their potential functional roles in autoimmune diseases. We identified a shared regulatory region on chr12q13 . 2 in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and observed significant associations of a trans-eQTL on chr12q13 . 2 with IRF1 and STAT1 expression in CD4+ T cells. We found that a common missense variant in IL27 is associated with increased expression of IRF1 and STAT1 in CD4+ T cells. We also found a missense variant in IL27 that confers protection against T1D through decreased expression of IRF1 and STAT1 in CD4+ T cells. Our results highlight the importance of studying cell type-specific eQTLs and their potential functional roles in complex diseases.
This study describes the cultural beliefs and practices surrounding the treatment of HAT in two provinces of DRC. The study finds that the community perceives HAT as a taboo disease that should not be discussed, and that people believe in the ability of spiritual and traditional practices to prevent and treat the disease. The study also notes that the community is aware of the risks associated with HAT treatment, including the possibility of adverse reactions, and that people are often hesitant to seek treatment due to these risks.
The team of Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) conducted a survey on VL in the eastern part of Sudan from May to June 2011. The survey included 45 villages, with 725 individuals reporting VL treatment in the past year and 239 individuals diagnosed with VL. The study found a low incidence of clinical VL and a low prevalence of PKDL in the study area, despite high prevalence of VL in the past. The study also found that the majority of VL cases were diagnosed in childhood and in men. The study highlighted the challenges of VL control in the area, including limited access to care and lack of PKDL treatment. The team recommended passive case detection through door-to-door screening and active case detection through linkage to care as the most effective strategies for VL control in the area.
Supercoiling is a key chromatin feature that plays a central role in regulating gene expression in bacteria. The level of supercoiling is determined by the interaction of DNA topoisomerases and DNA polymerases, and this interplay is crucial for controlling the expression of genes. Our study shows that gyrase is essential for controlling the supercoiling level in Salmonella, and that gyrase mutants display reduced growth rates and altered cell morphology. We also demonstrate that the level of supercoiling is influenced by transcription and transcription elongation rates. Our findings suggest that gyrase is a key component of the chromatin remodeling machinery that regulates gene expression in Salmonella.
This article discusses the role of the intracellular parasite Leishmania amazonensis in triggering an innate immune response in host cells. The authors describe how infection with Leishmania leads to the upregulation of a gene called LYST/Beige, which causes an expansion of late endosomes/lysosomes and increases the volume of the parasite-containing vacuoles (PVs). The authors also describe how the expansion of PVs protects Leishmania from being killed by a microbicidal mechanism that depends on the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. They further explain how the enzyme iNOS recruits nitric oxide to the membrane of recently formed pathogen-containing phagosomes, which is thought to be critical for its microbicidal activity. The authors propose that Leishmania uses this mechanism to evade host defenses and establish a persistent infection. They also discuss the potential of targeting LYST/Beige as a host-directed therapeutic strategy for treating leishmaniasis.
In the current study, we sought to identify the function of the zebrafish Myelin Cholesterol Transporter 8 (MCT8) in neuronal myelination, and to study its role in the pathogenesis of AHDH. To this end, we used a novel CRISPR/Cas9-based approach to generate a zebrafish mct8−/− line and investigated its phenotypic and functional characteristics in detail. Our analysis revealed that mct8−/− embryos displayed developmental abnormalities, including growth retardation and facial deformities. Moreover, mct8−/− larvae exhibited behavioral deficits, including increased activity and decreased sleep during the light phase, as well as disrupted responses to light-dark transitions. In addition, we found that the mct8−/− larvae displayed impaired neuronal myelination, as well as defective axonal growth and branching. These findings suggest that MCT8 is essential for proper neuronal myelination and axonal development, and that its loss-of-function mutation may contribute to the pathogenesis of AHDH in humans.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) are two of the most common human herpesviruses that cause a wide range of diseases and cancers. In the current study, the authors have used a combination of biochemical and cellular approaches to study the interactions of HCMV gH/gL and gB viral proteins. They have found that gB is a major component of gH/gL complexes, and that the interaction of gB with gH/gL is not disrupted by the presence of gO or UL128-131. Furthermore, they have shown that gB is a major component of gH/gL complexes in virions and that gB is in complex with gH/gL in infected cells. The authors have also identified a series of amino acid mutations that disrupt the interaction of gB with gH/gL and impair the ability of gH/gL to promote virus entry into target cells. Overall, these findings suggest that gB plays a key role in HCMV gH/gL complexes and that the interaction of gB with gH/gL is important for virus entry.
A recent study has identified a nuclear-encoded gene, Gimap3, as a key regulator of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) segregation in hematopoietic tissues in mammals. The study demonstrated that Gimap3 is a GTPase of the outer mitochondrial membrane that is critical for the proper segregation of mtDNA haplotypes in hematopoietic tissues. The study also identified a protein domain in Gimap3 that is unique to murine and human genomes. Additionally, the study identified a gene regulatory role for Gimap3 in mitochondrial biology. The study also demonstrated that Gimap3 plays an important role in mtDNA segregation independent of age and that it has a cell-specific context or pathway. Furthermore, the study demonstrated that copy number regulation is not a major determinant of mtDNA segregation. Finally, the study demonstrated that Gimap3 is a novel gene that plays a critical role in mtDNA segregation, which has important implications for understanding the pathogenesis of mitochondrial diseases.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a skin and soft tissue infection caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium ulcerans. It is found in many parts of the world, but the highest numbers of cases occur in sub-Saharan Africa. The incubation period (the time between exposure to the bacteria and the appearance of symptoms) for BU can vary widely, from a few weeks to several months or more. A recent study from Victoria, Australia estimated the incubation period for BU to be between 4 and 5 months. A new study of cases of BU in Victoria from 2013 to 2016 has confirmed this estimate. The study also found that there was no association between the incubation period and age, sex, location of exposure, duration of exposure, or location of the BU lesion.
Toxoplasmosis is an infectious disease caused by the parasite Toxoplasma gondii. The parasite can infect humans and other animals, leading to chronic infections that may have harmful effects on the brain. The parasite has a complex life cycle, with different forms existing in different environments. We have recently shown that TgNCR1, a protein involved in cholesterol metabolism, is essential for the growth of the parasite in humans. We have now investigated the role of TgNCR1 in the parasite life cycle and its interactions with other proteins. We have also examined the effects of TgNCR1 deficiency on parasite growth in vitro and in vivo, and on parasite virulence. Our work has led to the identification of new drug targets for the treatment of toxoplasmosis.
The provided content includes a detailed report of the identification and characterization of the Smoc1 gene as a causative gene for ocular-limb syndrome (OLS). The authors used several methods, including autosomal recessive linkage analysis, microsatellite analysis, and whole-mount in situ hybridization to identify and characterize the Smoc1 gene. They identified a mouse congenic strain that carries a mutation in Smoc1 and characterized the phenotypic characteristics of the strain. The authors also performed whole-mount in situ hybridization of Smoc1 in wild-type and mutant mouse embryos at different developmental stages. The results of their study suggest that Smoc1 plays an important role in limb and eye development in mammals.
Here, we report that the human interferon beta (IFNβ) induced restriction of HIV-1 production via TRIM22 . We show that TRIM22 is an IFNβ-inducible E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets HIV-1 Gag for degradation in a manner that depends on its myristoylation. We find that TRIM22 is a potent inhibitor of HIV-1 production in HOS-CD4/CXCR4 cells, and that the inhibition is more effective when HIV-1 production is initiated. We also show that TRIM22 does not inhibit HIV-1 production in U2OS or HeLa cells. We have generated a shRNA knockdown of TRIM22 in HOS-CD4/CXCR4 cells and found that the knockdown enhanced HIV-1 production. We further show that a mutant TRIM22, which does not contain the RING domain, does not inhibit HIV-1 production. We conclude that TRIM22 is an IFNβ-inducible E3 ligase that targets HIV-1 Gag for degradation in a manner that depends on myristoylation of Gag.
Monsoon figs are important sources of food for many animals, including pollinators that help the figs reproduce. Pollinator wasps lay their eggs inside the figs, where they hatch into larvae that eat the fig seeds. This can make it difficult for the fig to produce seeds. However, the figs have evolved ways to protect their seeds from the wasps. In one species of fig, the seeds are found in the center of the fig, which is not accessible to the wasps. This helps the fig to produce more seeds.
The study reports the use of high-resolution phenotyping platforms to identify QTL associated with plant height in a Setaria viridis x S. italica RIL population. A total of 400 RILs were grown in 12 controlled growth room experiments and 4 field experiments under different water treatment and planting density conditions. The results reveal that plant height is a complex trait that is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. The study identifies 37 unique QTL associated with plant height, of which 29 are associated with differences in plant height between treatment blocks. The study also identifies several candidate genes for these QTL using comparative genomics.
Scientists have identified and isolated a new strain of the Ilheus virus (ILHV) from mosquitoes in the Brazilian Pantanal region. ILHV is a flavivirus that has been associated with human cases of encephalitis, but no evidence of human cases has been reported in this region. The strain was isolated from mosquitoes captured in the Nhecolândia sub-region of the Pantanal, and is the first full-length sequence of ILHV available in a public database. The strain was identified as BrMS-MQ10, and has 44 nonsynonymous mutations compared with the only other full-length ILHV sequence available. Interestingly, there were three individual nucleotide insertions identified between codon 24 and 37 of the capsid region. These differences may be important for understanding the transmission dynamics and virulence of ILHV in this region.
Scabies is a common skin infection caused by mites that burrow into the skin, causing intense itching. While there are treatments available, they are not always effective and there is a risk of resistance developing. In this study, researchers tested the effectiveness of a single dose of moxidectin, an antibiotic that has been shown to be effective against mites in other animals, on scabies in pigs. The results showed that a single dose of moxidectin was more effective at killing mites, reducing clinical signs, and reducing the immune response compared to two doses of ivermectin, a currently recommended treatment. This suggests that moxidectin could be a promising new treatment option for scabies.
In this study, the authors constructed a S. aureus mutant strain lacking seven of the nine known enzymes with polymerase activities in the peptidoglycan (PG) biosynthesis pathway, and studied its growth and morphology. The results indicate that the growth and morphology of the mutant strain are not affected in rich medium, but are affected in minimal medium and in the presence of antibiotics targeting the PG biosynthesis pathway. The mutant strain is also unable to establish a successful infection in Drosophila flies and is impaired in its ability to kill the flies. The results suggest that the reduction of seven enzymes with PG polymerase activities leads to a severe impairment in the ability of S. aureus to synthesize its PG, and consequently affects its growth, morphology, and virulence.
The work presented here provides the framework for dissection of iron-acquisition pathways required for in vivo survival of a highly versatile and adaptable pathogen. B. pseudomallei, a Gram-negative bacterium that causes melioidosis in humans, was found to have multiple iron acquisition systems. In the current study, the siderophore biosynthesis and transport genes encoding malleobactin, pyochelin, and hemin were examined. The ability of B. pseudomallei to utilize these siderophores was determined by measuring iron chelation in cell-free supernatants, as well as by measuring the ability of the siderophores to support growth on iron-limited TSB medium. In addition, the ability of B. pseudomallei to utilize hemin was determined by measuring the ability of hemin to support growth on iron-limited TSB medium. The results of these experiments indicate that B. pseudomallei is able to utilize malleobactin, pyochelin, hemin, lactoferrin, and ferritin as iron sources. The ability of B. pseudomallei to utilize these siderophores and iron sources may explain the organism's ability to adapt to different environments and cause disease in a variety of hosts.
The software COMMGEN aims to provide a systematic method for the automatic and semi-automatic generation of consensus metabolic network models from multiple IGSMs. It uses a classification of inconsistencies between reactions and metabolites to identify and resolve inconsistencies. The software also includes methods for identifying alternative transport reactions and lumped reactions, and for assigning correct compartmentalization to reactions. The software uses a standardized naming system for metabolites and reactions, making it easier to compare and reconcile different models. COMMGEN can be used to improve the predictive power of GSMs and to facilitate the construction of new models. It is applicable to any organism and can be used to reconcile multiple IGSMs for the same organism. COMMGEN has been shown to be effective in generating consensus models for yeast and P. putida.
Our study provides evidence for a unique function of xylosyltransferase 1 (xylt1) in zebrafish embryonic development: xylt1 regulates the timing of skeletogenesis by controlling the levels of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) in the cartilage matrix. We identify two novel mutations in the xylt1 gene that alter the timing of skeletal development, leading to precocious formation of perichondral bone. We also identify a mutation in fam20b that affects the timing of skeletal development in a similar manner. Our data suggest that CSPGs may function to negatively regulate chondrocyte maturation. We show that chondrocytes in mutants with increased perichondral bone form mature chondrocytes earlier than those in wild-type animals, and we provide evidence that this is due to early expression of transcription factors that promote chondrocyte maturation. We also provide evidence that the precocious formation of perichondral bone in fam20b and xylt1 mutants is not due to a defect in HSPG production, which is required for normal chondrocyte maturation. Our findings suggest a novel function for xylt1 and fam20b in regulating the timing of skeletogenesis, and they implicate CSPGs in the regulation of chondrocyte maturation.
The enclosed manuscript provides a comprehensive study of the phenotypes of Drosophila oocytes following the expression of an RNAi construct designed to target the Top2 gene. The authors use a variety of techniques, including immunostaining, FISH, live imaging, and Western blotting, to analyze the effects of Top2 depletion on chromosome organization, segregation, and condensation. Their findings suggest that Top2 plays a crucial role in maintaining proper chromosome segregation during meiosis and is necessary for chromosome condensation. These observations are consistent with previous studies in other organisms, and further our understanding of the function of Top2 in chromosome condensation and segregation.
The study evaluated the effectiveness of using deltamethrin collars to control VL in dogs. The study used two different groups of dogs, one from an endemic area and the other from a non-endemic area. The results showed a significant reduction in VL incidence in the dogs that received deltamethrin collars. The study also found that the effectiveness of deltamethrin collars varied depending on the length of time they were worn and the study area. Overall, the study suggests that deltamethrin collars can be effective in controlling VL in dogs. However, more studies are needed to better understand the effectiveness of deltamethrin collars in different study areas and under different conditions.
This article presents a new method for studying the differences in gene expression between the sexes on the X chromosome. The authors found that the expression of X-linked genes tends to be lower in females than in males, and that this difference is more pronounced in the female testis. The authors also found that this difference is more likely to occur in genes that are expressed at low levels overall, or that are highly repetitive. The authors suggest that this difference may be due to the fact that X chromosome inactivation, a process in which one of the X chromosomes is shut down in females, tends to affect highly repetitive genes.
The study aimed to estimate the prevalence of H. pylori among Pygmy and non-Pygmy groups in Cameroon. The study recruited 253 individuals with 176 from the Baka (Pygmy) and 77 from the non-Pygmy group. Biopsies were collected from the antrum and corpus of the stomach. The biopsies were cultured and 191 H. pylori strains were isolated. The study found that the prevalence of H. pylori was higher among non-Pygmy individuals than among Pygmy individuals. The study also identified a distinct H. pylori clade among Baka individuals. The clade was found to be associated with a higher risk of gastric cancer.
The study aims to understand the importance of specific amino acid residues on the C-terminal region of the dengue virus NS5 protein in its interaction with the cellular importin alpha protein. The authors have previously shown that the importin alpha protein is required for the nuclear localization of the dengue virus NS5 protein. In this study, the authors have conducted biochemical and structural studies to determine the residues that are important for the interaction of the dengue virus NS5 C-terminal region with importin alpha. The authors have used a combination of biochemical methods such as co-immunoprecipitation, co-localization studies and X-ray crystallography to determine the specific residues that are important for the interaction of the dengue virus NS5 C-terminal region with importin alpha. The authors have also performed mutational analysis to confirm the importance of the identified residues. The study has important implications for understanding the role of the dengue virus NS5 protein in its interaction with host cell proteins and for the development of therapeutic interventions targeting this protein.
This study describes an innovative integrated mapping methodology for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) that can provide district-level data in a timely manner. The Integrated Threshold Mapping protocol (ITM) uses existing data and integrates disease-specific mapping indicators to determine if the threshold for NTD public health intervention has been reached. In two case studies, the ITM protocol was compared to WHO recommended mapping protocols for trachoma, schistosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis, and soil-transmitted helminths in two NTD-endemic countries. The results indicated that using the ITM methodology resulted in concordant public health intervention decisions and that the ITM protocol was logistically and cost-efficient. The ITM methodology could be used by Ministries of Health as an operational tool to determine if the threshold needed to launch disease-specific public health interventions has been reached.
This paper describes the effects of meiotic monoubiquitination on the spindle assembly checkpoint in S. cerevisiae. The authors show that the absence of meiotic monoubiquitination leads to a decrease in the amount of Mad2 bound to kinetochores and a decrease in the rate of spindle assembly checkpoint release. They also show that meiotic monoubiquitination is not required for spindle assembly checkpoint function during mitosis. These findings suggest that meiotic monoubiquitination is specifically involved in the regulation of the spindle assembly checkpoint during meiosis.
We have presented a new analysis algorithm called GeneProgram that automatically identifies gene expression programs in large-scale datasets. GeneProgram uses a probabilistic Bayesian model that combines information from multiple tissue types exposed to different environmental stimuli to identify coherent gene expression programs. The algorithm was tested on two different datasets of human tissue samples and found to outperform several other biclustering algorithms. The results of GeneProgram were validated using genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data of nuclear factor-κB transcription factors. The GeneProgram algorithm has potential for identifying disease-related gene expression programs and predicting drug targets.
In this study, the authors examined the role of epigenetic modifications in the regulation of NK cell function. They found that CD57+ NK cells from HCMV-seropositive individuals have increased levels of DNA methylation in the IFNG locus compared to CD57- NK cells. This methylation is associated with the increased expression of IFNG by CD57+ NK cells. The authors also found that IFNG expression is increased in CD57+ NK cells from HCMV-seropositive individuals after stimulation with HCMV-infected cells. These findings suggest that DNA methylation in the IFNG locus plays a role in regulating the function of NK cells in response to HCMV infection.
Legionella pneumophila is a bacterial pathogen that can cause pneumonia and other serious lung infections in humans. It is an intracellular bacterium, meaning it can survive and replicate inside of human cells. To do this, L. pneumophila must be able to manipulate the host cell's biochemistry in order to create an environment that is conducive to its own survival. One way L. pneumophila does this is by using effector proteins, which are proteins that are injected into the host cell by the bacterium and perform specific functions inside the cell. In a previous study, it was found that L. pneumophila produces an effector protein called SidH that has ubiquitin ligase activity. Ubiquitin ligases are proteins that add small molecules called ubiquitins to other proteins, which can then be recognized by the cell's proteasome (a large protein-degrading machine) and degraded. In this study, the authors further investigated the function of SidH by using a genetic approach. They created a strain of L. pneumophila that lacked SidH, and infected this strain into human cells. They found that the strain lacking SidH was able to infect the human cells just as well as the wild-type strain, but that the number of bacteria inside the cells was lower. This suggests that SidH is important for the bacterium's ability to replicate inside of the cells. The authors then used an in vitro assay to determine the function of SidH. They found that SidH was able to bind to a protein called ubiquitin in vitro, and add it to other proteins. They also found that SidH was able to degrade the protein RalF, which is known to be involved in the host cell's signaling pathways. These findings suggest that SidH is an important effector protein for L. pneumophila, and that it plays a key role in the bacterium's ability to replicate inside of human cells by manipulating the host cell's proteins.
In this study, the authors used high-throughput sequencing to analyze the evolution of HIV-1 in a large cohort of patients from China. They identified 81 patients with rapid diversification of their viral genomes, which is evidence of strong positive selection for immune escape variants. They then used computational methods to identify specific regions of the viral genome that were subject to strong selection, and found that many of these regions were associated with immune escape variants that were known to be important for viral replication and pathogenesis. The authors also found that the vast majority of these immune escape variants were selected early in infection, and that they were often transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy. These findings suggest that rapid immune escape variants play a major role in the diversification of HIV-1 in vivo, and that they may be important targets for future vaccine and therapeutic development.
We present a minimal mathematical model that captures the key features of the budding yeast silencing system. The model predicts the existence of bistability between active and silenced states of the chromatin, which is consistent with experimental observations. The model also predicts that the bivalence state arises for small perturbations in some of the parameters and that this state is stable in a four-dimensional parameter space. Our model provides a new view on how the yeast silencing system is robustly designed to generate stable epigenetic states.
This study provides a detailed analysis of the gut microbiota composition in children with severe acute malnutrition with and without edema. The study used both traditional denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and high-throughput sequencing technologies to characterize the gut microbiota of 33 non-edematous and 54 edematous children. The results showed that the edematous children had higher GM alpha diversity compared to the non-edematous children. However, no clear compositional differences were found between the two groups of children. The study may contribute to a better understanding of severe acute malnutrition and inspire future research on better therapeutic strategies.
We have identified two S. paradoxus strains with extreme differences in telomere length. We have shown that these differences are due to both quantitative and qualitative differences in telomeric DNA and its maintenance, which appear to be caused by natural variation in the S. paradoxus population. We have also identified epistatic interactions between alleles in the two strains that cause dramatic differences in telomere length and structure. These differences may explain why the two subpopulations have not yet interbred despite living in similar environments.
The decision to buy or sell a stock is a common one in the stock market. However, it is a very difficult decision to make. The stock market is known to be volatile and unpredictable, making it difficult to predict the future price of a stock. In this study, we looked at the decision to buy or sell a stock based on the information available from the stock market. We used several different approaches to model the decision to buy or sell a stock, including a simple decision tree model, a more sophisticated decision tree model, and a neural network model. We found that the decision to buy or sell a stock is a complex one, and that different approaches may be more or less successful depending on the circumstances. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of using multiple approaches to model complex decision problems like this one.
We have identified a missense variant of the gene encoding SUV39H2, a histone methyltransferase, as a strong candidate for the causative mutation of HNPK, a genetic disorder that affects the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers. Our data suggest that HNPK is not due to hyperproliferation of keratinocytes, but rather to a delay in the terminal differentiation of keratinocytes.
In this study, we investigated the transmission dynamics of influenza A viruses (IAV) between avian and swine species in feral swine. We found that the reassortant virus generated during mixed infection could be transmitted from infected pigs to healthy pigs. The transmissibility of reassortants was affected by the temperature. In general, the transmissibility increased with increasing temperature, especially at 39°C. We found that the virus could be shed from nasal cavities and trachea, with 100% transmissibility efficiency under experimental conditions. In addition, we also found that the virus could be transmitted from infected pigs to healthy pigs through direct contact. The results provide insight into the transmissibility of IAV in feral swine and help to better understand the potential for pandemic influenza viruses to emerge in swine.
We analyzed the effects of maternal infection with the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni and its treatment during pregnancy on S . mansoni infection and immune responses in the offspring at age 5 years. We found no evidence that maternal infection or treatment affected the prevalence of S . mansoni infection in the children, or their antibody responses to S . mansoni. We did find that maternal infection was associated with higher cytokine responses to S . mansoni antigens in the children. However, these differences were not seen in children who were treated with praziquantel during pregnancy.
We have identified the protein coronin 1 as a switch that activates the phagocytic function of macrophages. Coronin 1, which is phosphorylated by protein kinase C, translocates to the plasma membrane and reorganizes there into macropinosomes, which are large phagocytic vacuoles. This reorganization is required for the efficient internalization of large particles such as bacteria and viruses by macrophages. We have also identified a novel function of coronin 1 in the formation of macropinosomes by recruiting PAK kinase to the plasma membrane, which activates Rac1 GTPase to promote macropinosome formation. Furthermore, we have shown that the activation of PAK kinase is dependent on the phosphorylation of coronin 1 by PKC. Our findings provide a molecular basis for the role of coronin 1 in the activation of the phagocytic function of macrophages and suggest that it could be a potential target for therapeutic interventions.
The study aimed to understand the perceptions of HAT and tsetse traps among the local communities in Uganda. The study found that while some communities were aware of the role of tsetse in HAT transmission, others did not associate tsetse with HAT. The study also found that the HAT+ group had a higher acceptance of tsetse traps than the HAT- group. These findings are important for developing effective HAT control programs in the region, as they highlight the need for community involvement and sensitization in HAT control programs.
This article describes the results of a study on recombination in Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly). The authors used whole genome sequencing and computational analysis to examine the distribution of recombination events across the genome and to test for different rates of recombination at different types of DNA sequences. They also investigated the possibility of a heterozygosity-dependent bias in the repair of DNA double strand breaks. The authors found that there was a significant heterogeneity in recombination rates across the genome, with some regions having much higher or lower rates than average. They also found evidence of a bias in favor of gene conversion repair in regions with high levels of polymorphism. The authors suggest that their results provide new insights into the mechanisms of recombination in D. melanogaster and may have implications for the study of recombination in other species.
This article describes the functional characterization of the IDN2-IDP1/IDP2 complex involved in RdDM in Arabidopsis thaliana. The authors identify the XH domain of IDN2 as responsible for dimerization with its paralogs IDP1 and IDP2. The authors also identify the XH domain of IDP1/IDP2 as responsible for double-stranded RNA binding, while the XH domain of IDN2 does not bind double-stranded RNA. The authors also demonstrate that IDP1 and IDP2 are not required for RdDM, but the double mutant idp1idp2 has reduced RdDM. The authors further demonstrate that the IDN2-IDP1/IDP2 complex is responsible for DNA methylation and siRNA accumulation in Arabidopsis. Overall, this article provides insight into the functional characterization of the IDN2-IDP1/IDP2 complex involved in RdDM in Arabidopsis thaliana.
This study investigates the role of neutrophils in immune responses to Leishmania (L.) braziliensis infection. Neutrophils are a type of white blood cell that play a key role in the body's first line of defense against infections. The study found that neutrophils are recruited to the site of L. braziliensis infection and become activated, producing reactive oxygen species (ROS), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and elastase. Later, the study observed neutrophil apoptosis and clearance of apoptotic neutrophils by macrophages. These findings suggest that neutrophils play an important role in immune responses to L. braziliensis infection.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a bacterial infection that mainly affects the lungs but can affect other parts of the body. In cattle, TB is caused by Mycobacterium bovis. TB is a significant animal and public health problem worldwide. In the United Kingdom (UK), eradication of bovine TB has been a government priority for many years, but despite significant efforts, the disease persists. The most common way to detect TB in cattle is through skin tests that measure the cow’s immune response to the bacteria. However, this test can be unreliable, leading to false positives or false negatives. In this study, we developed a mathematical model to simulate the spread of bovine TB in herds of cattle. We used data from the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) in the UK to inform the model parameters, including the probability of transmission, the duration of infection, the probability of being diagnosed with TB through skin tests, and the impact of vaccination on these parameters. We also incorporated information from a previous study that looked at the impact of different testing strategies on the spread of TB. Our model can be used to explore different testing strategies and vaccination protocols to determine which are most effective at controlling the spread of TB in cattle herds. Overall, our study provides important insights into the dynamics of bovine TB in cattle herds and can inform future research and policy decisions aimed at controlling the disease.
We conducted a high-throughput screening campaign using an automated platform to identify novel compounds active against the parasite Trichuris muris . The screening was based on a motility assay that measures the ability of the parasite to swim, and identified 20 active compounds, belonging to a new family of dihydrobenzoxazepinones. These compounds were found to be active against T. muris at micromolar concentrations and with low cytotoxicity on mammalian cells. They also showed activity against a related species, T. trichiura, and inhibited egg hatching and embryonation in vitro. One compound, OX02983, was further optimized for improved activity and selectivity and had potent activity against T. muris in vivo. These findings demonstrate the utility of our automated platform for screening for novel anthelmintics and suggest that the dihydrobenzoxazepinone family could be a promising new class of drugs for the treatment of trichuriasis.
Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks play a crucial role in understanding the functioning of biological systems. However, despite extensive research, there is no consensus on how to define and classify nodes or links in a PPI network. In this study, we revisited the concept of date and party hubs in PPI networks and found that there is no evidence for date/party dichotomy in the expression correlation of protein complexes. We also found that the date/party distinction is not robust across different experimental techniques and data sets. Additionally, we did not observe a significant difference in the number of co-expressed proteins between date and party hubs. Our findings suggest that a date/party distinction may not be useful for studying the properties of PPI networks. Instead, we propose a link-centric approach to studying PPI networks. We used the betweenness centrality of links in a PPI network to quantify the importance of each link to the overall connectivity of the network. We found that the betweenness centrality distribution is not bimodal and is affected by the experimental technique used to generate the PPI data set. We also found that links with higher betweenness centrality tend to be associated with higher functional similarity between interacting proteins. Finally, we suggest that a link-centric approach may be useful for studying the properties of PPI networks and for understanding the functional roles of proteins in a biological system.
This study aimed to explore the utility of whole genome sequencing (WGS) in reconstructing the transmission histories of different pathogens during outbreaks. The study focused on ten major outbreak causing pathogens, including bacteria, viruses, and parasites, and used two models of sequence evolution for comparison. The authors found that mean transmission divergence was generally very low, with a modal value of zero for most pathogens under both evolutionary models. This suggests that a large fraction or even a majority of cases in many epidemic scenarios will be genetically indistinguishable, even though some cases may be related by a large number of mutations. These findings have important implications for the use of WGS data in outbreak investigations, as they highlight the need to consider other sources of information when reconstructing transmission histories. The authors also demonstrated that greater transmission divergence improved the inference of transmission histories, although this relationship was weaker in the phybreak model. Overall, this study provides important insights into the use of WGS in outbreak reconstruction and highlights the need for innovative approaches to overcome the limitations of WGS data in resolving transmission chains.
X-linked genes escape from random X-inactivation in a tissue-specific manner. We compared the distribution of escape genes on the X chromosome in male and female mouse tissues. We found that escape from XCI is more common in male than female tissues, consistent with previous findings in human. We identified a large number of escape genes that have not been reported previously and are specific to particular tissues. Many escape genes have an open chromatin structure and CTCF binding peaks. We also found distinct differences in CTCF binding on the Xi and Xa in mouse tissues, suggesting that CTCF may play a role in organizing the Xi. Our study provides a comprehensive analysis of escape from XCI in vivo in multiple mouse tissues, providing a foundation for future studies to understand the mechanisms of escape from XCI in specific tissues.
Vivapains are a family of proteases found in malarial parasites that are important for their survival. We have identified a new member of this family, VX-4, which has a different substrate specificity than previously characterized vivapains. We have shown that VX-4 can degrade erythrocyte cytoskeletal proteins in addition to its activity against hemoglobin. This suggests that VX-4 may play a role in the remodeling of erythrocytes during the process of egress of merozoites from erythrocytes. We have also shown that VX-4 is expressed throughout the intraerythrocytic stages of P . vivax , and that it localizes to both the food vacuole and the parasite cytoplasm. These findings suggest that VX-4 may play multiple roles during the life cycle of P . vivax .
The presented study reconstructs and analyzes a metabolic model for Clostridium ljungdahlii, a model organism in the field of anaerobic biotechnology. The metabolic model, called iJL965-ME, was reconstructed using the COBRApy tool and incorporates previously uncharacterized processes, such as thioredoxin and ferredoxin redox cycles. The model was validated by comparing its predictions to in vivo and in vitro experimental data. The results showed that the model was able to accurately predict growth rates and metabolite secretion under different growth conditions. Furthermore, the model was able to predict the effects of different nutrient limitations on growth rates and metabolite secretion. Overall, the study provides a valuable resource for researchers working in the field of anaerobic biotechnology and demonstrates the potential of genome-scale metabolic modeling to predict the behavior of anaerobic microorganisms.
This article describes a study on the association between genetic variations and gene expression in osteoblasts and lymphoblasts. The authors used microarray data from human osteoblasts and lymphoblasts to identify genes that are differentially expressed between the two cell types. They then used SNP array data to identify SNPs that are associated with the expression of these genes. The authors validated the expression of some of the identified genes using RT-PCR and identified a novel isoform of FAM118A in osteoblasts. They also fine-mapped the genetic location of the FAM118A gene using re-sequencing. Finally, the authors replicated their findings in an independent set of HapMap samples and performed RT-PCR validation in lymphoblasts. Overall, this study provides insights into the genetic regulation of gene expression in osteoblasts and lymphoblasts.
In this study, we present an analysis of the evolution of maltose and maltotriose utilization in Saccharomyces eubayanus. We show that S. eubayanus strains were able to consume maltotriose in wort after laboratory evolution, and we provide evidence that this is due to the acquisition of a new maltotriose transporter gene by non-reciprocal recombination between subtelomeric MALT genes. Our results suggest that gene neofunctionalization by gene shuffling plays a crucial role in the evolution of gene functions in industrial yeasts.
In this study, we have found a positive correlation between the antigenic variation of influenza viruses and the total excess mortality they may cause. This correlation is significant for all three types of human influenza viruses, A (H1N1), A (H3N2), and B, and can be used to rapidly estimate the potential impact of emerging antigenic strains on human death. The correlation between antigenic variation and excess mortality was established based on the data of influenza seasons from 1977 through 2008. We further developed an epitope-based prediction model, EADpred, that can predict the antigenic distance between two strains based on their HA1 sequence. EADpred was further validated by a blind test in the 2009 Swine-origin Influenza A (H1N1) Virus (S-OIV) that has caused a large number of deaths worldwide. The findings of this study will help develop more sensible and cost-effective influenza prevention and control policies.
The P. pachyrhizi effector protein PpEC23 targets soybean and N. benthamiana SPL12 transcription factors to suppress HR and basal defense, leading to enhanced growth of P. pachyrhizi-infected plants.
We identified the EphA2 receptor as a crucial player in chlamydial infections of human cells. The receptor is upregulated and activated by chlamydial infection in a time-dependent manner. It recruits PI3K to the Ctr inclusion membrane to amplify host cell signaling to support Ctr development. The activated EphA2 also prevents host cell apoptosis induced by TNF-α.
Active dendrites are important for enhancing the dynamic range of neuronal responses. Our model, which consists of an excitable tree with branchlets, shows that the larger the dendritic tree, the more the dynamic range is enlarged. Our model suggests that this feature of active dendrites is a fundamental property of all excitable media, irrespective of the topology and physical parameters. This finding helps to explain why active dendrites are ubiquitous in neurons and provide a mechanistic basis for the widespread use of dendritic inhibition. Our model also predicts that neurons with large dendritic trees will be resistant to blocking of synaptic input, suggesting a possible explanation for the robustness of neural networks. We predict that dendritic spikes generated by large dendritic trees will be highly variable in amplitude, which may provide a basis for the coding of external stimuli into dendritic calcium signals. Our model suggests that the functioning of dendritic trees is strongly influenced by the internal branchlet dynamics rather than the global network connectivity. This observation may help to explain why the spatial location of synapses on dendrites is so important for dendritic function.
In this study, we propose a general framework for inferring regulatory interactions from reporter gene data, which can be used to investigate the regulation of gene expression. We use the example of the motility module of E. coli to demonstrate the efficacy of this approach. We show that the use of reporter genes encoding GFP fusion proteins allows us to estimate the concentration of the proteins from promoter activity measurements. This enables us to estimate the activity of the gene expression machinery, which we use to account for variations in protein half-lives and global physiological effects on the dynamics of promoter activities. We also illustrate how the influence of FliA and FlgM on the dynamics of promoter activities can be included in the analysis. Our results show that the inclusion of the above effects leads to better fits of promoter activities to mathematical models and hence to improved inferences about regulatory interactions. Our approach is based on a combination of experimental design, kinetic models of gene expression, and mathematical analysis. It is generalizable to a wide range of biological systems and could be applied to investigate the regulation of other genes and biological processes.
This study aimed to characterize the spatial and temporal distribution of a rodent reservoir species of zoonotic diseases, Oligoryzomys fulvescens, in a peridomestic area in rural Panama. The rodents were monitored monthly for four years and captured in six grids representing different habitats. The study found that the population of O. fulvescens was spatially aggregated over relatively short distances and was highly dynamic, shifting across time and space. The population was initially located in an upper right quadrant of the study area but shifted over time to a lower left quadrant, becoming less important in the upper right region. The study also found that there were inter-annual fluctuations in abundance, with a peak in 2008 and a decline in 2009. These results provide important information for understanding the spatial dynamics of zoonotic reservoir populations and the factors that influence them, which can inform strategies for monitoring and predicting disease outbreaks.
We present a computational method for inferring the antigenic impact of amino acid changes in the evolution of influenza A viruses. Our method uses least-squares optimization to reconstruct antigenic branch lengths from pairwise antigenic distances between isolates. We applied this method to the influenza A ( H3N2 ) virus from 1968 to 2003 and identified seven sites in the HA1 domain of hemagglutinin with high antigenic impact. Additionally, our method identified five amino acid changes with high antigenic weight at several points in time for different antigenic types. Our findings may be of particular relevance for influenza A ( H3N2 ) virus antigenic evolution and could be used to identify isolates and associated changes with large antigenic impact for vaccine strain updates prior to antigenic type transitions.
The work by Zhang et al. provides a comprehensive analysis of the cell cycle-dependent entry of human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) into host cells. The authors use both chemical and genetic perturbations to identify specific regulators that facilitate or inhibit entry of HPV16 during different stages of the cell cycle. They find that mitotic regulators, such as Aurora B and INCENP, promote entry during metaphase, while CDK1 inhibition prevents entry. They also identify specific viral proteins that are involved in entry at different stages of the cell cycle. For example, L2 associates with host chromatin during metaphase, while E1∧E4 is required for entry during G1. These findings provide a detailed understanding of the mechanisms underlying HPV16 entry into host cells, which could have important implications for the development of new antiviral therapies.
The Fungal Genome Initiative (FGI) is a collaborative effort that aims to generate reference genomes for over 1,000 fungal species. The project started in 2003 and has since published over 500 genomes. The FGI has made significant contributions to the study of fungi, including the discovery of new genes and the identification of new taxonomic groups. The project has also facilitated the development of new technologies for fungal research, including gene-editing tools. Overall, the FGI has played an important role in advancing our understanding of fungi and their role in the natural world.
The manuscript by Grubert et al. presents an interesting and innovative method for inferring the birth and death rates of a regulatory element based on its phylogenetic distribution across multiple species. The birth-death model proposed by the authors is implemented using a maximum likelihood approach, which provides an objective means of estimating the birth and death rates. The authors apply their method to the binding sites of six transcription factors, and show that the majority of these binding sites have recent origins in the human lineage. The authors also present evidence that the birth of regulatory elements can be driven by non-selective factors, such as the turnover of repetitive elements, and that the death of these elements is primarily driven by relaxation of repressive chromatin states. The manuscript is well-written and the methods are clearly presented, but the manuscript would benefit from a more thorough discussion of the limitations of the method and how it can be applied to different types of regulatory elements. Additionally, the authors do not discuss the implications of their findings for understanding the evolution of regulatory elements. Overall, the manuscript presents a useful method for inferring the birth and death rates of regulatory elements and provides some interesting insights into the evolution of these elements.
In summary, our results reveal a novel mechanism by which the circadian clock gene per2 is regulated by the enhancer element LRM. The LRM consists of a D-box and E-box separated by a 50 bp spacer sequence. We show that the LRM confers light responsiveness to the per2 promoter by interacting with the E-box binding factor, CLOCK, and the D-box binding factor, TEF. The D-box enhances expression in response to light through TEF, while the E-box represses expression in the dark through CLOCK. The LRM is also required for the circadian rhythmicity of per2 expression under LL conditions. Taken together, our results suggest that the LRM functions as a light-responsive enhancer element that confers rhythmic expression to the per2 gene.
In this study, the authors have investigated the role of coronin in Plasmodium berghei, a parasite of rodents that causes malaria in humans. They used mice as a host and genetically modified mosquitoes to study the parasite in vivo. They found that coronin is important for the transmission of the parasite from mosquitoes to mice. They showed that coronin is involved in the attachment of parasites to the surface of red blood cells and that it is important for the proper functioning of the parasite in the bloodstream. They also showed that coronin is important for the transmission of the parasite from mice to mosquitoes. They found that coronin is involved in the attachment of parasites to the surface of mosquitoes and that it is important for the proper functioning of the parasite in the mosquito's gut. Overall, their study provides important insights into the role of coronin in the transmission of malaria parasites.
We have selected four Leishmania mexicana lines that exhibit resistance to AmB in vitro and identified multiple genetic changes that may contribute to this resistance. In all four lines, the level of AmB resistance was high and stable, suggesting that the genetic changes are likely to be essential for AmB resistance. We identified changes in the relative abundance of sterol transcripts and the structure of the sterol transcripts in each line. In AmBRB/cl2, AmBRD/cl2, and AmBRC/cl3, changes in the relative abundance of sterol transcripts were caused by deletion of 3' UTRs in one of the sterol transcripts. In AmBRC/cl3, the deletion was caused by a process of homologous recombination following duplication of the region surrounding the sterol transcripts. In AmBRB/cl2, the deletion was caused by a process of homologous recombination following duplication and deletion of a region containing a putative SIDER1 element. In AmBRD/cl2, a mutation in the miltefosine transporter was identified that may contribute to AmB resistance. The changes we identified in the sterol transcripts and miltefosine transporter suggest that AmB resistance is likely to be caused by multiple mechanisms in Leishmania mexicana. These mechanisms may involve changes in the relative abundance of sterol transcripts and the structure of sterol transcripts.
This study investigated the effects of attention and prediction on the ability of humans to perceive an illusion in visual stimuli. The researchers used an illusion called the Kanizsa Triangle, which is created by the arrangement of three simple shapes, such as circles or lines. The participants were asked to view a series of Kanizsa Triangle stimuli, each of which contained an oriented line segment, a horizontally or vertically oriented line, and a circle. The participants were then asked to judge whether the line segment in each stimulus was pointing to the right or left. The results showed that attention and prediction had a positive effect on the participants' ability to perceive the illusion. Specifically, the participants who were asked to pay attention to the line segment were more likely to perceive the illusion than those who were not asked to pay attention. Additionally, the participants who were asked to predict which direction the line segment would point in were also more likely to perceive the illusion than those who were not asked to make a prediction. These findings suggest that attention and prediction can enhance the perception of illusions in visual stimuli.
In this study, we examined the host-parasite interactions between T. b. gambiense and human serum. We found that group 1 T. b. gambiense parasites are resistant to human serum and are able to survive within human cells. However, group 2 T. b. gambiense parasites are sensitive to human serum and are not able to survive within human cells. We also found that group 1 T. b. gambiense parasites do not take up TLF-1, which is thought to be one of the main factors that contribute to human serum resistance. Instead, group 1 T. b. gambiense parasites appear to use a different mechanism to avoid the lytic effects of TLF-1. These findings suggest that group 1 T. b. gambiense parasites may have evolved a different resistance strategy compared to group 2 T. b. gambiense parasites.
The methylation status of the HIV-1 promoter has been analyzed in a cohort of individuals who are infected with HIV-1 but who have been treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART) for at least 2 years and have undetectable viral load. The analysis was performed using restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis to examine the methylation of specific CpG sites in the HIV-1 promoter. The results showed that the methylation status of the HIV-1 promoter varied widely among individuals, with some individuals having heavily methylated promoters and others having hypomethylated promoters. The differences in methylation status were not associated with differences in HIV-1 genotype or HIV-1 subtype. In addition, the methylation status of the HIV-1 promoter did not correlate with differences in CD4+ T cell count or viral load. These results suggest that the methylation status of the HIV-1 promoter is not related to viral control or immune function in ART-treated individuals.
We present a comprehensive, genome-wide catalog of variants for a Drosophila wild-derived population. The data includes single-nucleotide, multi-nucleotide, and structural variants in coding and non-coding regions. We find that indels are common (∼1 per 150 bp) and frequently disrupt coding regions. We identify cis-eQTLs in ∼20% of protein-coding genes, revealing that many variants in the genome may have an effect on gene expression. Our data highlight the importance of studying population genetics and the complexity of the regulatory architecture underlying gene expression.
We simulated the relation between the motor unit recruitment, force, EMG, and EMGnc signals for different conditions of common synaptic input. We found that amplitude cancellation distorts the relation between the neural drive and EMG signals, with greater effects on low-frequency components. Simulations indicated that this effect can be reduced by increasing the selectivity of the EMG recording.
The root growth of plants grown in the presence of Aluminum (Al) is inhibited. Al causes the accumulation of auxin in the root tip. The auxin signaling protein PIF4 binds to the promoter region of YUC9, which encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of a precursor molecule for auxin. The expression of YUC9 is upregulated by Al. Al also causes the expression of PIF4 to be upregulated in the root tip. The expression of PIF4 is regulated by EIN3 and EIL1. When the expression of EIN3 and EIL1 is inhibited, the expression of PIF4 is also inhibited. When the expression of PIF4 is inhibited, the expression of YUC9 is also inhibited. This results in a decrease in the amount of auxin that is synthesized in the root tip. Aluminum causes the expression of PIF4 to be upregulated in the root tip and the expression of YUC9 to be upregulated in the root tip. This results in an increase in the amount of auxin that is synthesized in the root tip. The increased amount of auxin that is synthesized in the root tip causes the root growth of plants grown in the presence of Al to be inhibited.
NK cells are key players in the innate immune response to viral infections. Their effectiveness in controlling viral infections depends on the ability of the virus to evade recognition by NK cells. In this study, the authors investigate how NK cells respond to SIV, a virus that infects macaques. They discovered that 28 out of 75 SIV peptides bound by Mamu-A1*002 inhibit Mamu-KIR3DL05+ NK cell responses. The authors also found that changes at certain positions of these peptides differentially affect NK cell activity. They show that signals from inhibitory peptides dominate over disinhibitory variants to suppress NK cell lysis. The authors' findings suggest that immunodeficiency viruses may reduce their susceptibility to NK cells by acquiring changes in epitopes that stabilize MHC class I interactions with inhibitory KIRs. This research contributes to our understanding of how viruses evade NK cell surveillance and may help in the development of new strategies to control viral infections.
This study presents the identification of a novel mutation in the icc63A>T gene of NTHI strain RM33 that is associated with persistent otitis media in chinchillas. NTHI is a Gram-negative bacterium commonly associated with acute otitis media in children, and it has a complex lifestyle that involves the intracellular and extracellular phases of infection. The icc63A>T mutation alters the active site of the cAMP-dependent phosphodiesterase Icc, resulting in decreased phosphodiesterase activity. This study demonstrates the importance of understanding the mechanisms of NTHI pathogenesis in order to develop new strategies for prevention and treatment of otitis media.
The bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei is a serious cause of infection in humans, particularly in Southeast Asia. The immune system has several strategies to combat intracellular infections. One strategy is to limit iron availability for the pathogen. Iron is an essential element for the growth of bacteria, and so the body limits the amount of iron that is available to pathogens. However, pathogens may develop ways to acquire iron from the host. In this study, researchers explored how Burkholderia pseudomallei limits the availability of iron to the host immune system. They found that the bacterium can increase the amount of iron that is available to itself by decreasing the amount of iron that is available to the immune system. The researchers also found that the bacterium can increase the amount of iron that it can acquire from the host. These findings provide important insights into how the immune system can combat intracellular infections.
We present a novel approach to identify functionally relevant collective motions in proteins dynamics by quantifying the correlation between collective motions and a functionally relevant quantity. We introduce the mutual information (MI) as a measure of correlation between collective motions and a functionally relevant quantity and apply it to the hinge-bending motion in T4L and the hydrophobic solvent-accessible surface area in Trp-cage. We demonstrate that the MI is able to detect the collective motions that are functionally relevant and further use the mutual information as a basis for model selection and predictive power.
In this article, the authors present a study on the relative order of intron removal in the tubA and gapC genes of the green alga E. gracilis. They used a combination of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and next-generation sequencing (NGS) to determine the order of intron removal in the tubA gene and performed RT-PCR and sequencing to investigate the maturation of the 5’ end of the rbcS gene. The results of their study suggest that nonconventional introns are removed before conventional introns in the tubA gene, and that the 5’ end of the rbcS gene is processed in a coordinated manner with the excision of the first intron. The authors also discuss the methodology used in their study and the challenges associated with investigating nonconventional introns.
[Introduction]
The bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei is a major cause of melioidosis, a severe infection that can occur in humans and animals. B. pseudomallei is a Gram-negative, motile, and saprophytic bacterium that is found in soil and water. In addition to causing melioidosis, B. pseudomallei can also be used as a biological weapon. The innate immune system is the first line of defense against invading pathogens, and it plays a critical role in controlling infection. The innate immune system is composed of various types of immune cells, such as macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells, as well as various types of molecules, such as cytokines and chemokines. These cells and molecules work together to recognize and eliminate invading pathogens. In this study, we used a mouse model of melioidosis to investigate the role of the innate immune system in controlling B. pseudomallei infection. We found that the innate immune system plays a critical role in controlling B. pseudomallei infection, and that different types of immune cells, such as macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells, contribute differently to the clearance of B. pseudomallei. We also found that cytokines and chemokines play important roles in regulating the immune response to B. pseudomallei infection. Overall, our study provides new insights into the innate immune response to B. pseudomallei infection and may lead to the development of new therapies for treating melioidosis.
The SnRK1 complex plays important roles in regulating pollen germination, but the factors regulating the SnRK1 complex in pollen are unknown. In this study, we found that the SnRK1 complex subunits, including kinβγ, are highly expressed in Arabidopsis pollen. The kinβγ mutant and pollen-specific mutants of the SnRK1 complex subunits exhibited pollen germination defects, which could be rescued by the addition of cytokinin. The SnRK1 complex subunits regulate ROS signaling in pollen, which is important for pollen germination. The pollen coat of wild-type plants exhibited more ROS signals than that of the SnRK1 complex mutant plants. In addition, pollen tubes of wild-type plants exhibited more ROS signals than those of the SnRK1 complex mutant plants. This study provides insights into the role of the SnRK1 complex in pollen germination and the importance of ROS signaling in pollen germination.
In this study, we have shown that RNase III plays a crucial role in controlling the expression of three toxic genes in Bacillus subtilis, by destabilizing their mRNAs through the formation of antisense RNA duplexes. The genes txpA, yonT, and bsrG are encoded by prophages that have a deleterious effect on their host when induced. We have found that the stability of their mRNAs is influenced by the presence of RNase III, a ribonuclease involved in RNA turnover. We have shown that RNase III cleaves the antisense strand of the duplex formed between txpA mRNA and RatA asRNA, leading to the degradation of the txpA mRNA. This mechanism of txpA mRNA destabilization is important for the regulation of txpA expression, as cells that lack RNase III have an increased amount of txpA mRNA, which is toxic to the cell. Similarly, we have shown that RNase III is also involved in the destabilization of the mRNAs of yonT and bsrG, by forming antisense RNA duplexes. This mechanism of RNA turnover is important for the regulation of gene expression in B. subtilis, as genes that are toxic to the cell are regulated in a RNase III-dependent manner.
Brugia malayi is a filarial nematode that causes lymphatic filariasis. To investigate the role of extracellular vesicles (EV) in parasite-host interactions, we analyzed the secreted EV and the corresponding secretome of B. malayi. We found that the secreted EV profile of B. malayi is consistent with the release of exosomes, which are small vesicles that are secreted from the cell. We observed that the EVs of B. malayi are enriched in proteins that are involved in exosome biogenesis, such as Rab proteins, Hsp70, and annexins. We also found that the EVs contain proteins that are known to modulate the host immune response, such as BmMIF-1 and Gal-1. Additionally, we found that the EVs of B. malayi contain small RNA molecules that are likely to be involved in the regulation of gene expression. The proteomic data presented here suggest that B. malayi EV play an important role in parasite-host interactions.
Scabies and impetigo are both very common in the Western Province of the Solomon Islands. Scabies is more common in males, children and infants, and affects the lower legs, ankles, feet, wrists and hands. Impetigo is more common in males, children and infants, and affects the head and neck, torso, and lower legs, ankles, feet, wrists and hands. Scabies appears to be a significant risk factor for the development of impetigo. There is a need to explore community control strategies for scabies to reduce the burden of these neglected tropical diseases.
The hippocampus is a brain region involved in learning and memory. Cellular proliferation in the hippocampus has been linked to the relative proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ subsets of αβ T cells. A large stock of outbred mice was used to investigate this correlation, and the results suggest that the link is due to natural genetic variation rather than a direct effect of T cells on neurogenesis.
The study aimed to develop and test a DNA-prime/protein-boost vaccine against Trypanosoma cruzi (T. cruzi), the causative agent of Chagas disease. The vaccine, named TcVac2, consists of four antigen candidates (TcG1, TcG2, TcG4, and Tc18S) that were selected based on their conservation among different T. cruzi strains and their expression as surface proteins during the infective stages of the parasite. Mice immunized with TcVac2 exhibited a strong and rapid expansion of parasite-specific antibody responses upon T. cruzi challenge infection. The antibody responses were primarily of the IgG2b isotype and were associated with an effective control of acute parasitemia. The immunized mice also exhibited a polarized cytokine response, with dominance of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the acute phase and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the chronic phase. These findings suggest that TcVac2 may provide effective protection against T. cruzi infection.
The risk of developing type 1 diabetes (T1D) is influenced by a large number of genetic and environmental factors, and many studies have attempted to identify susceptibility loci. However, current genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have yielded limited results, with few loci showing a robust association with T1D. In this study, we assessed the potential of machine learning approaches to improve the predictive performance of T1D risk assessment. We compared the accuracy of two popular machine learning algorithms, logistic regression (LR) and support vector machine (SVM), in predicting T1D from genetic data. We used seven case-control datasets from different studies to test the performance of these algorithms. Our results showed that SVM outperformed LR in predicting T1D from genetic data. Specifically, SVM achieved an average area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.81, compared to 0.76 for LR. We also found that the performance of SVM was robust across different datasets and subgroups of the datasets. These findings suggest that machine learning approaches may hold promise for improving the predictive performance of T1D risk assessment and may help to identify new genetic and non-genetic factors that influence the risk of developing T1D.
We have studied the role of circulating memory CD8+ T cells (TCM) in providing protection against a secondary viral infection. We show that TCM CD8+ T cells are the major T cell population that traffics into infected skin, and that their presence is independent of CD62L expression. We also show that TCM CD8+ T cells infiltrate non-lymphoid tissues such as skin and provide rapid protection against viral infection, but do not require cytolysis for this effect. We also found that TCM CD8+ T cells do not require proliferation or differentiation into effector T cells in order to provide protection against viral infection. These findings support a new model for the role of circulating memory CD8+ T cells in controlling viral infection.
The polarization of proteins is a fundamental characteristic of neurons and plays a major role in defining the structure and function of neuronal compartments, such as the axon and dendrites. Protein polarization can result from differential rates of synthesis and degradation of specific proteins in each compartment. Alternatively, protein polarization can also result from differential rates of transport of specific proteins between the compartments. In this study, we examined the molecular mechanisms by which neurons polarize specific proteins to the axon or the dendrites. First, we generated a new fusion protein of Myosin VI and the intracellular domain of Nav1.2 and expressed it in cultured neurons. We found that the fusion protein was transported to the axon, suggesting that myosin VI could facilitate the transport of ion channels to the axon. We then expressed the fusion protein in fly neurons and found that the fusion protein was transported to the dendrites, suggesting that myosin VI could facilitate the transport of ion channels to the dendrites. Finally, we generated a new fusion protein of Myosin VI and a GFP-tagged version of the extracellular domain of L1. The fusion protein was transported to the axon, suggesting that myosin VI could facilitate the transport of extracellular proteins to the axon.
The sex-determining gene DapmaDsx1 has been investigated in the water flea Daphnia magna. This gene has a domain structure similar to insect Dsx genes, and exhibits sexually dimorphic expression in its transcripts. This suggests that the DapmaDsx1 gene evolved from an ancestral sex-determining gene. The DapmaDsx1 gene does not have a sex-specific splicing event like in insects, but instead has sex-specific expression in transcripts. This study provides insights into the evolution of sex determination in crustaceans and insects, and highlights the importance of studying model organisms to understand complex biological processes.
We investigated a trivalent adenovirus vaccine that contains three different subunits of the HSV-2 glycoprotein D (gD2) and the HSV-2 glycoprotein E (gE2) that have been modified to block the interaction of gC2 with C3b and gE2 with IgG Fc. The trivalent vaccine outperformed a vaccine containing gD2 alone in both mock- and HSV-2-immunized guinea pigs. The trivalent vaccine also outperformed a gD2 vaccine containing CpG ODN in guinea pigs. The vaccine induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies that were capable of blocking replication competent virus in vitro, and also protected guinea pigs against vaginal HSV-2 challenge. The trivalent vaccine also reduced the replication of HSV-1 in vitro. This vaccine has the potential to protect against multiple HSV types in humans and may be useful as a preventive and therapeutic vaccine.
We developed a new algorithm named Perm-seq, which uses prior information from DNase-seq and histone ChIP-seq data to map multi-mapping reads more accurately to their origin. We used this method to identify novel targets of 14 TFs in segmental duplication regions and other repetitive regions of the human genome. The identified targets showed similar sequence characteristics as known canonical binding sites of the studied TFs. We found that protein-DNA interactions in repetitive regions are evolutionarily less conserved compared to protein-DNA interactions in non-repetitive regions, yet the patterns of nucleotide-level conservation correlate well between the repetitive and non-repetitive regions. We observed that the majority of DNase-seq and histone ChIP-seq reads, especially those of the TFs with dynamic binding profiles, could not be mapped to a single location using only DNase-seq, but could be assigned to a unique position with the help of histone ChIP-seq data. Perm-seq has the capability to improve ChIP-seq peak calling in segmental duplication regions, but is not expected to improve over methods that do not utilize priors for other types of repetitive regions.
This study focused on the relationship between schistosomiasis and HIV-1 infection. The authors found that people with schistosomiasis had a higher risk of HIV-1 infection, and that schistosomiasis increased HIV-1 viral load in those who became infected. They suggested that schistosomiasis may alter the immune system and impair the ability of the body to control viral replication, leading to higher HIV-1 viral loads. The authors called for further research to determine if mass treatment of schistosomiasis can reduce the incidence of HIV-1 infection and slow the progression of HIV-1 disease.
We show that high mTOR activity is associated with a decrease in rDNA copy number in HSCs. We find that high mTOR activity is associated with DNA damage sensitivity and a reduction in rRNA production. We speculate that the extra inactive copies of rDNA may normally serve in part to counteract rDNA instability. Our data provide a basis for further studies of the role of rDNA in cancer and aging.
The study describes the development and validation of a mathematical model to describe the in vivo population dynamics of genetically identical Salmonella enterica strains during infection in mice. The model takes into account the bacterial replication and death rates in different organs (blood, liver, spleen) and the transfer of bacteria between them. The model was fitted to experimental data obtained from a previous study and the parameters estimated. The model was validated by comparing the predicted dynamics to the observed dynamics of different Salmonella strains in mice. The study suggests that the model can be used to understand the dynamics of bacterial populations during infection in mice and potentially to predict the outcome of different infection scenarios.
The authors present a theoretical analysis of 3D motion perception, with a focus on the inverse problem of binocular 3D motion. They argue that existing approaches to 3D motion perception are insufficient to solve the inverse problem of binocular 3D motion. The authors propose a new approach that relies on parallel processing of motion and disparity input, followed by late integration. They also introduce a new constraint that allows for the disambiguation of local velocity constraints and the derivation of a velocity estimate. The authors compare two alternative strategies of perceived 3D motion when local motion direction is ambiguous. They conclude that the visual system may use parallel processing and late integration to solve the inverse problem of binocular 3D motion, with the ability to remain flexible when binding and segmenting local inputs from different processing stages into a global 3D motion percept.
Structural and biochemical characterization of two alginate lyase enzymes from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The β(1,3)-glucan-masking pathway is a critical mechanism that Candida albicans uses to evade host immunity. In this study, we constructed the Mkc1ΔN467 strain, which lacks the non-essential C-terminal domain of the kinase Mkc1. Mkc1ΔN467 showed decreased masking of β(1,3)-glucan and improved immunity against C. albicans in vivo and in vitro, suggesting that the non-essential C-terminal domain of Mkc1 plays a role in masking β(1,3)-glucan.
This study aimed to identify new genetic loci associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia by using a neuropathologic case-control design. The study included 5,981 autopsy samples and found that 12 previously reported AD loci were significantly associated with AD dementia, with 9 of these loci also significantly associated with specific neuropathologic features of AD. The study also discovered six novel loci associated with AD dementia and specific neuropathologic features of AD, including one locus associated with the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and another associated with hippocampal sclerosis. These results provide new insights into the molecular drivers of specific neuropathologic features of AD and suggest potential new therapeutic targets for AD dementia.
In this study, the authors aimed to understand the role of urea in protein unfolding. They used molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the kinetic role of urea in unfolding, focusing on the first stages of unfolding when the protein structure is still close to the native conformation. The authors used 30 proteins representative of all protein folds, and 4 different force-fields to obtain more general results. They found that urea favors the formation of partially unfolded microstates, which are unlikely to be sampled in the "unfolded" state of aqueous proteins. The authors believe that their results clarify the molecular basis of the effect of urea on the thermodynamics of the folded-unfolded equilibrium and the molecular mechanisms by means of which urea contributes to accelerating protein unfolding.
This systematic review aimed to analyze the epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia during the period 2000–2011. The results indicate that dengue disease incidence was highest in 2010, with approximately 147,670 non-severe cases reported. Dengue disease cases were generally more common in urban areas, and more than half of the cases occurred in eight municipalities. The majority of dengue disease cases during the review period were classified as non-severe, and the case fatality rate was generally lower than in previous decades. However, there was a slight increase in the proportion of severe cases between 2000 and 2009, whereas the data for 2010 and 2011 suggest a recent decrease. The case fatality rate (dengue virus infection confirmed by laboratory analysis) in 2010 was the highest since 2002 and increased to 3.1% in 2012. The majority of cases were reported in the Centro Oriente, Centro Occidente and Costa Atlantica regions, which had high population densities and poor infrastructure. The most commonly affected municipalities were Santander, Norte de Santander and Huila in the Centro Oriente region, and Quindio, Risaralda and Atlantico in the Costa Atlantica region. The recent decrease in the proportion of severe cases could be explained by changes in case definitions of dengue disease used in Colombia from January 2010, when the new WHO definitions were adopted. The review highlights the record number of cases of non-severe dengue disease reported for 2010 in Colombia. There are many complex factors that may contribute to an increase in incidence of dengue infection, including high population density and poor infrastructure, hyperendemicity, high temperatures, and inadequacies in current methods to reduce dengue transmission. The recent decrease (2010 and 2011) in the proportion of severe cases could be explained in part by the change in case definitions of dengue disease used in Colombia from January 2010, when the new WHO definitions were adopted in line with global recommendations. However, the reasons for the more recent (2010–2011) increase in case fatality rate are unclear. There is a lack of definitive evidence to characterize the links between DENV serotype, genotype or subtype with the incidence or severity of dengue disease in Colombia.
The paper by Beaumont and colleagues is a comprehensive review of the literature on coinfections with leishmaniasis, a neglected tropical disease caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania that are transmitted by the bite of phlebotomine sandflies. The authors summarize the available evidence on the frequency and clinical implications of coinfections with leishmaniasis and other diseases in human populations, as well as the interaction between leishmaniasis and other pathogens in animal models and human subjects. The paper provides a detailed description of the frequency of coinfections with leishmaniasis and other diseases, such as tuberculosis, helminthiasis, and malaria, in different regions of the world. It also discusses the mechanisms of interaction between leishmaniasis and other pathogens, the effects of coinfection on the course and outcome of leishmaniasis, and the implications of coinfections for diagnostic testing and treatment. Overall, the paper provides a valuable resource for researchers, clinicians, and public health professionals interested in the complex and often poorly understood interactions between leishmaniasis and other diseases.
The study identifies a quantitative trait locus (QTL) for RT1-Ah class Ia molecule expression in the rat. The QTL was mapped to the MHC-I region and a subset of the TAP locus on chromosome 11. The authors conducted a series of experiments to investigate the effects of the QTL on CD4+CD8+ thymocyte selection and class Ia molecule expression. They found that the QTL influences CD8+ thymocyte selection by reducing the number of DP thymocytes, which leads to an increased number of CD8+ T cells in the periphery. The authors also found that the QTL affects class Ia molecule expression by increasing the number of CD8+ T cells. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of CD4+CD8+ thymocyte selection and class Ia molecule expression.
We describe the hospitalizations related to Chagas disease in Spain from 1997 to 2011, in terms of time, geographical distribution, and disease related individual characteristics. Overall, 1729 hospitalizations were identified, with the 16-45 age-group being mostly represented and heart and digestive system conditions being the main diagnoses. The hospitalization rate increased steadily from 2001 to 2011, despite a decrease in the Latin American population from endemic countries. The number of hospitalizations with organ complications also increased, especially among women and in the 46-65 age-group. Overall, the most frequent medical procedures were obstetrical surgery, diagnosis or therapy procedures and heart surgery. The most important factors associated with hospitalizations with organ complications were being male, aged 45-65 years, a history of re-admission, and a higher hospitalization cost.
Our results demonstrate the utility of a novel network-based approach called BlocBuster for identifying a combinatorial genetic pattern strongly associated with a complex trait. We applied this approach to psoriasis, a common and inflammatory autoimmune skin disease, using a large case-control genome-wide association study. BlocBuster identifies combinatorial patterns of SNP alleles that exhibit high correlations and integrates this information into a network. This approach accommodates genetic heterogeneity by computing multiple correlations and utilizing them to construct a network with dense community structure. We applied several sets of validation trials to ensure that the results are robust to various sources of noise and bias. Our analyses yielded a 17-allele combinatorial pattern that exhibits strong association with psoriasis (p = 1.05 × 10−27) and was replicated in an independent dataset of 439 cases and 728 controls (p = 4.48 × 10−9). Furthermore, we analyzed the network structure of this combinatorial pattern and found that it consists of a dense set of clusters. These clusters have a mean size of 7.6 and a range from 2 to 12 alleles. The alleles in each cluster have a mean correlation of 0.11 and a range from 0.002 to 0.24. The network structure of this combinatorial pattern is highly robust to noise and bias, as shown by the results of several validation trials. In order to identify the genes contributing to this pattern, we extracted the SNPs from the network and found that they are primarily located in the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) region on chromosome 6. We also performed replication of this result in an independent dataset of 439 cases and 728 controls. This association was stronger in the replication dataset than in the discovery dataset, with a p-value of 1.89 × 10−15 compared to 3.64 × 10−27 in the discovery dataset. Overall, our results demonstrate that BlocBuster is a robust and efficient approach for identifying combinatorial patterns associated with complex traits and highlight its potential utility for further investigations of the genetic basis of complex diseases.
In this study, we aimed to identify rare copy number variations (CNVs) in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We used PennCNV, a computational tool, to identify CNVs in 164 ASD cases and 218 controls. We found that ASD cases had significantly more rare CNVs than controls, with a significant excess of deletions and duplications. In addition, we identified 64 rare CNVs in ASD cases that were not present in controls, including 28 duplications and 36 deletions. These CNVs impacted 181 genes, with the majority of the genes having a known function. We further analyzed the genes impacted by these CNVs and found that they were significantly enriched for autism-related genes, including genes related to synaptic function and neurotransmission. Our findings provide further evidence for a role of rare CNVs in the etiology of ASD.
The paper "Increased Wound-Induced Gene Expression in Yki(RNAi) Planarians" describes the effects of the YAP co-activator mutant, Yki, on wound response and regeneration in planarians. The authors showed that Yki plays a crucial role in regulating the magnitude and duration of the injury response to wounding signals. They found that Yki is required for proper scaling of the wound response, which is necessary for regeneration of tissues following injury. The authors also showed that Yki plays a role in regulating patterning molecules involved in the wound response, which affects the patterning of new tissues following regeneration. The authors conclude that Yki is an important regulator of the injury response and that its role is crucial for proper scaling and patterning of new tissues following regeneration.
Exosomes are vesicles released by cells that contain various RNA species, including viral RNA. We found that EV71 infection induced exosomal secretion and the level of exosomal RNA in cells. We also found that EV71 infection induced upregulation of miR-146a in cells. We demonstrated that miR-146a promoted EV71 replication in cells by inhibiting the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6, which are involved in the IFN-induced signaling pathway. Furthermore, we found that EV71 infection induced downregulation of BST-2/Tetherin expression in cells. We also demonstrated that BST-2/Tetherin reduced the replication of EV71 in cells by inhibiting the release of viral RNA from exosomes. We found that EV71 infection induced upregulation of miR-146a in exosomes. We also demonstrated that exosomal miR-146a promoted EV71 replication in cells by inhibiting the expression of BST-2/Tetherin. We also found that exosomes released by EV71-infected cells could promote the infection of uninfected cells.
In this study, the authors identify a novel component of the mitochondrial fusion/fission machinery that regulates the PINK1-dependent mitochondrial clearance pathway. Specifically, they demonstrate that the protein PGAM5 plays a role in the clearance of damaged mitochondria and that it interacts with the mitochondrial protein PINK1 to regulate this process. The authors also show that PGAM5 is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial fission and that it has a role in the progression of Parkinson's disease. Overall, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying the PINK1-dependent mitochondrial clearance pathway and its role in Parkinson's disease.
Buruli ulcer is a rare but severe infectious disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans. It is endemic to West and Central Africa, and cases have also been reported in Australia, New Zealand, and South America. The disease is characterized by skin ulcers, swelling of the affected limbs, and extensive tissue damage. The pathogenesis of the disease is not well understood, but it is thought to involve a complex interplay of host and pathogen factors. The immune response to M. ulcerans infection is of particular interest, as it may provide insights into the development of protective immunity against the disease and inform the development of vaccines and other preventive measures. In this study, we used a mouse model of Buruli ulcer to investigate the immune response to M. ulcerans infection. We found that mice lacking the cytokine interferon-gamma (IFNγ) displayed more severe disease progression than mice with functional IFNγ. Specifically, the mice lacking IFNγ showed more extensive tissue damage and a higher bacterial burden in the skin at 5 weeks after infection. We also found that mice lacking IFNγ were more susceptible to developing extracellular bacteria, which are a hallmark of the disease. These findings suggest that IFNγ plays a critical role in the early stages of the immune response to M. ulcerans infection and in the development of protective adaptive immune responses. This study highlights the importance of understanding the immune response to M. ulcerans infection in order to develop effective treatments and preventive measures for this devastating disease.
The article describes a mathematical model of electron transport chain in complex III of mitochondria. The model takes into account the redox states of electron donors and acceptors involved in the process of electron transfer. The model includes the interactions between complex III and the other respiratory complexes of mitochondria. The authors of the model claim that it accurately describes the experimental data obtained on mitochondrial electron transport and can be used to predict the effects of different conditions on the efficiency of electron transfer and the production of reactive oxygen species. The article provides an overview of the mathematical model and its capabilities, but it does not include specific details about the model itself or the methods used to test its accuracy.
This study presents a quantitative analysis of gene expression patterns and regulatory mechanisms in the Drosophila embryo using a mathematical model. The model is based on the concept of gap gene regulation, which describes the patterning of gene expression in the early embryo. The study uses a novel parameter optimization algorithm to find the best-fit values for the parameters of the model. The model is used to generate and analyze 1400 different gene expression patterns, and the study finds that the model can reproduce the expression patterns of 94% of the genes in the Drosophila genome with a high degree of accuracy. The study also analyzes the regulatory mechanisms that control the expression patterns of the genes. It finds that the model can accurately predict the regulatory inputs that control the expression of the genes, and it identifies several new regulatory inputs that were not previously known. The study provides a comprehensive analysis of gene expression patterns and regulatory mechanisms in the Drosophila embryo, and it suggests that the model can be used to study the development and evolution of pattern formation in other organisms.
A study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of phage lysate in the treatment of Brucellosis in adult cattle. The study found that Brucella abortus RB51 lysate, when administered in combination with Brucella abortus S19 lysate, was effective in reducing the bacterial load in the blood of infected animals. The study also found that the use of Brucella abortus RB51 lysate alone was effective in reducing the bacterial load in the blood of infected animals. The study used plasma RNA as a biomarker to monitor the effects of phage lysate treatment, and found that plasma RNA decreased significantly in treated animals. The study also found that Brucella abortus RB51 lysate was effective in inducing cell mediated immunity in the treated animals, as evidenced by a significant increase in the number of interferon-γ producing lymphocytes. Overall, the study suggests that phage lysate treatment can be an effective treatment for Brucellosis in adult cattle.
In this study, the authors used chemical genetics to identify the human cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) as a player in the DNA damage response. The authors showed that specific inhibition of CDK2 after DNA damage led to increased sensitivity of human cells to the damaging agent. The authors also used chemical genetics to identify Nbs1, a member of the Mre11 complex, as a substrate of CDK2 phosphorylation. This study provides insight into the role of CDK2 in the DNA damage response and identifies a new function of CDK2 in this process.
A recent large genome-wide association study (GWAS) has identified SNPs associated with risk for myocardial infarction (MI) that are close to the NFκB pathway gene PIK3CG. Here, we describe a methodological approach to determine whether the NFκB pathway plays a causative role in MI by identifying regulatory genomic regions associated with the NFκB pathway that are specifically enriched for MI-associated SNPs. The method uses publicly available genomic data to perform a comparative analysis of genomic regulatory regions associated with the NFκB pathway in platelets and leukocytes. We find that regulatory regions associated with the NFκB pathway in platelets are enriched for MI-associated SNPs, but regulatory regions associated with the pathway in leukocytes are not. Our results suggest that the NFκB pathway may be involved in MI pathogenesis. We also validate our method by performing a targeted analysis of the regulatory region associated with PIK3CG in platelets and finding a causal effect for the MI-associated SNP rs342293. This work demonstrates that comparative analysis of regulatory regions associated with pathways across different cell types is a useful tool for identifying functional targets of GWAS SNPs and for generating hypotheses about the underlying mechanisms of complex diseases.
The rhythmic activity of the respiratory network in the brainstem is thought to be generated by the interaction between inhibitory and excitatory synaptic connections, but the exact role of inhibition is unknown. Here, we show that TTX, which blocks sodium channels, but not potassium channels, blocks INaP, which is the source of the slow afterhyperpolarization, and the pacemaker activity of the pre-BötC neurons in the isolated network, while RZ, which blocks calcium channels, fails to block the pacemaker activity. Our results suggest that INaP may be less inactivated than previously proposed, and that it may play a critical role in rhythm generation in the intact respiratory network.
We have identified miR-218 as a tumor suppressor in GC metastasis. We found that miR-218 suppressed the invasion and metastasis of GC cells by targeting Robo1 through a negative feedback loop involving the ligand and receptor. Our study provides a potential target for the development of therapeutic strategies for the treatment of GC metastasis.
In this study, we used a mouse model of familial hypercholesterolemia to explore the gene regulatory network of foam cells, a critical component in the development of atherosclerosis. We found a novel regulatory gene network that included both known and novel genes, and we demonstrated that lowering plasma cholesterol in this mouse model prevented the formation of advanced plaques. We believe that these findings provide insights into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and may lead to new therapeutic approaches.
We report a high-throughput phenotyping platform for screening bacterial mutants that disrupts envelope biogenesis. We use the color-phenotype reporter (CPRG) to screen 100,000 mutants from a transposon mutant library and identify 80 mutants with diverse envelope defects. We further investigate the mechanism of action of ElyC, a protein identified in the screen, by genetic and physiological analysis. We show that ElyC is important for Und-P metabolism during envelope biogenesis. Our study provides a valuable resource for understanding the complex process of envelope biogenesis and for identifying novel targets for antibiotic development.
This study describes a new semi-supervised machine learning method to synthesize continuous multivariable developmental trajectories from heterogeneous datasets. The method is applied to studies of early Drosophila development, where it is used to fuse data obtained from imaging studies of tissue morphology and molecular components of the patterning network that is responsible for the DV axis formation. The fused trajectories reveal a complex dynamics of the patterning process in three dimensions and for multiple molecular components. The paper provides a closed-form solution for the proposed method and also describes its validation and applications.
The study was designed to compare the immunoreactivity and hydrolysis of basement membrane proteins of three hemorrhagic snake venom metalloproteinases (SVMPs) of the crotalic family. The analysis was carried out on extracted proteins from the skin of mice injected with saline solution (control) or with three different SVMPs. The results showed that all three SVMPs were able to hydrolyze the main basement membrane proteins, such as type IV collagen, laminin, nidogen, and type VI collagen, to a similar extent, except for the hydrolysis of nidogen, which was significantly lower for the PIII SVMP. Immunofluorescence analysis of mouse skin sections confirmed the localization of the three SVMPs in the basement membrane of capillaries, arterioles, and precapillary venules. Moreover, immunofluorescence showed that the three SVMPs co-localized with type IV collagen in capillaries, arterioles, and precapillary venules, whereas the PII SVMP showed a more widespread co-localization with type IV collagen in the basement membrane of all three types of vessels. Overall, the results demonstrated that all three SVMPs were able to hydrolyze basement membrane proteins and co-localize with type IV collagen in the basement membrane of microvessels, with the PII SVMP showing a more widespread pattern of co-localization.
The BX-C is a region in the Drosophila genome that is highly conserved across many insect species, and it is known to be involved in the regulation of developmental processes. The BX-C is composed of a series of homeotic genes, each of which is responsible for determining the segmentation and patterning of specific body parts. One of the most important homeotic genes in the BX-C is abd-A, which is responsible for determining the segmentation and patterning of the abdomen. In a previous study, it was shown that abd-A is expressed in the posterior segments of the abdomen, and that it interacts with other homeotic genes in the BX-C to determine the overall body plan. In this study, we investigate the regulation of abd-A expression in the posterior segments of the abdomen. We found that abd-A expression is regulated by a series of non-coding RNA transcripts, which are highly conserved across many insect species. These transcripts are expressed in the anterior segments of the abdomen and interact with abd-A in the posterior segments to repress its expression. We also found that the regulation of abd-A expression is highly complex, involving multiple transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of homeotic gene expression in the BX-C and may have important implications for understanding the evolution and development of insect bodies.
The brain has a complex structure that allows it to carry out various functions such as thought, memory, and movement. However, what causes brain disorders such as epilepsy remains unknown. In this study, we used a computational model of the brain to understand the relationship between the brain's excitability and seizure onset. We used a cortical model that simulates the behavior of individual neurons and their interactions with each other. We found that the model can predict the onset of seizures based on the excitability of the brain. This excitability is determined by the balance of inhibition and excitation in the model. We also found that the excitability of the brain changes over time, which can lead to the onset of seizures.
Here, we describe the generation of a novel, functional maize K+ channel cDNA, named ZmES4. We show that ZmES4 encodes a small protein with high sequence similarity to known plant and animal α-type DEFLs. ZmES4 is predicted to localize to the endoplasmic reticulum, where it may function as a DEFL-like protein that affects the activity of K+ channels. We also present evidence that ZmES4 is involved in the formation of reproductive tissues in maize, including the embryo sac and ovules.
In this study, the oncolytic activity of a novel human HER-2-retargeted adenovirus (R-LM249) was demonstrated against human breast and ovarian cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo using mouse models. The virus was effective against both subcutaneous and intraperitoneal tumors, and inhibited metastatic spread to brain, lung, and ovary.
The study of an essential component of the budding yeast centrosome, Sfi1, reveals that it is phosphorylated by Cdk1 at multiple sites during the cell cycle and that the block to duplication of the SPB in metaphase is specifically dependent on phosphorylation of Sfi1 at these sites. This study highlights the role of Cdk1 in controlling the duplication of centrosomes and their components and provides insight into the mechanism by which Cdk1 regulates duplication of the SPB.
Here we describe the role of viral protein R in HIV-1 infection and replication. We show that R plays an important role in the acute phase of infection by promoting the replication of HIV-1 in infected cells. Our findings suggest that R enhances the production of viral proteins, and that this occurs by targeting a specific subset of HIV-1-infected cells. We also show that R promotes HIV-1 replication by increasing the expression of viral genes. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the mechanisms of HIV-1 infection and replication, and may have important therapeutic applications.
The study aimed to understand the temporal dynamics of P. vivax malaria in South Korea and the change in the parasite population structure. The study analyzed the spatiotemporal dynamics of P. vivax malaria in South Korea and the changes in the parasite population structure using allelic data of 14 microsatellite DNA loci of 163 isolates from 1994 to 2008. The study found that the parasite population structure in South Korea changed drastically in 2002 and 2003, and that the genetic diversity of the parasite population in North Korea increased in 2001. The study also found that the introduction of genetically different P. vivax populations from North Korea might have contributed to the change in the parasite population structure in South Korea.
The paper "Promoter directionality of RNAPII-transcribed genes in budding yeast is determined by intron-mediated recruitment of termination factors" describes a study of how the presence of an intron affects the directionality of transcription in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast). The authors show that introns are required for the proper directionality of transcription. They find that the presence of an intron promotes the recruitment of termination factors to the promoter region, and that these factors then direct transcription in the proper direction. The authors also show that the presence of an intron is necessary for proper gene looping, which is essential for the proper directionality of transcription. They propose a model where the presence of an intron allows for the proper recruitment of termination factors to the promoter region, which in turn direct transcription in the proper direction. Overall, the paper provides important insights into the mechanisms of transcription directionality in budding yeast.
The Zbed6 gene is a newly discovered gene that is located on the X chromosome of the human genome. It encodes a zinc finger protein that is highly expressed in the skeletal muscle and is involved in the regulation of the IGF2 gene, which plays an important role in growth and development. The Zbed6 protein contains three conserved domains: the zinc finger domain, the BED domain, and the transcriptional repression domain. Studies have shown that Zbed6 protein functions as a transcriptional repressor and is involved in the repression of the IGF2 gene in muscle cells. Mutations in the Zbed6 gene have been linked to various diseases, including Prader-Willi syndrome and X-linked deafness.
In this study, we developed a computational pipeline to identify RNA-editing sites in rhesus macaque tissues. By mapping RNA-seq reads to the macaque reference genome, we obtained a list of RNA-editing sites with high confidence and coverage. We then manually curated the list to ensure the accuracy of the identified sites. By comparing the identified RNA-editing sites with known sites in human, we found that most of the identified sites were highly conserved across species, suggesting that they may be functional in rhesus macaques. Additionally, we found that some of the identified RNA-editing sites were located in coding regions of genes, suggesting that they may have regulatory functions in gene expression.
Perception is not perfect and can be biased, even in humans, who are known for their high visual acuity. Here we show that a perceptual bias in the spatial frequency of two gratings can be observed in a two-alternative spatial frequency discrimination task. This bias is not due to a lack of information in the encoding stage, but rather is caused by suboptimal decoding. We propose a population code model that is capable of achieving near-optimal performance in the task. However, even this model is not capable of eliminating the perceptual bias. This suggests that the perceptual bias may not be due to a lack of information available to the observer. The findings of this study may have implications for our understanding of how humans and animals perceive stimuli in natural environments.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the C. elegans miRNA mir-1 in regulating the expression of 21U RNAs, small non-coding RNAs that are encoded by the genome but are not recognized as microRNAs. They use a combination of RNA sequencing, genetic engineering, and biochemical assays to demonstrate that mir-1 regulates the expression of a subset of 21U RNAs and that this regulation is important for proper germline function in C. elegans. The authors also use the C. elegans 21U RNA system to investigate how RNA-binding proteins might regulate 21U RNA expression and to identify potential target sites for small RNA-mediated regulation. These findings provide new insights into the function and regulation of small non-coding RNAs in C. elegans.
Brucella abortus, a gram-negative intracellular bacterium, causes undulant fever and encephalitis. It is the leading cause of occupational infectious disease in humans worldwide. Brucella abortus has a unique life cycle in mammalian host cells. After being phagocytosed by host cells, Brucella abortus resides in a specialized intracellular compartment, the Brucella-containing vacuole (BCV). The BCV matures by fusing with endosomes, and the resulting compartment is called the replicative BCV. This compartment provides a membrane environment for Brucella abortus replication. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of the BCV and its maturation into a replicative BCV are not well understood.
Tombusviruses hijack the endomembrane system to form viral replication compartments in plant and yeast cells. The presence of endomembrane components, such as Rab5 and Vps34, is crucial for the formation of viral replication compartments in yeast cells. The proviral role of yeast Vps34 in tombusvirus replication is confirmed in yeast and plant cells by silencing Vps34 gene expression. The proviral role of yeast Vps34 in tombusvirus replication is also confirmed by inhibiting PI3K and PI (3) P synthesis. These findings provide insights into the interplay between cellular components and viral replication and identify a new potential target for antiviral strategies.
In this study, we describe the use of direct and indirect feeding methods for mosquitoes to evaluate DENV transmission from humans to mosquitoes. Our study involved 58 participants with confirmed DENV infection who were asked to provide whole blood samples or blood samples with and without EDTA. We compared infection rates and dissemination rates in mosquitoes that fed on participants’ blood directly and in those that fed on blood samples with EDTA. Our results show that both direct and indirect feeding methods were effective, with infection rates and dissemination rates being highly correlated. However, we found that participants preferred to participate in direct feeding experiments, and we recommend that future studies use direct feeding methods when possible. We also highlight the need for more naturalistic methods of assessing human-to-mosquito DENV transmission in order to better understand the dynamics of DENV transmission and the epidemiology of dengue fever.
We developed a novel CRISPR/Cas9-based method to generate allele-replacement mutants of the C. elegans TOP-2 topoisomerase in vivo. We used this method to create top-2(ok1930) mutants with a Q797M substitution. This substitution abolishes the predicted ability of top-2 to bind to etoposide, a topoisomerase poison that is selectively toxic to human cells. We showed that top-2(ok1930) mutants are resistant to etoposide toxicity, whereas top-2(ok1900) mutants are sensitive. We generated an additional mutant, top-2(ok1930) with a Q797M substitution, that is sensitive to etoposide. We showed that this mutant is also resistant to etoposide toxicity, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We generated an additional mutant, top-2(ok1900) with a Q797M substitution, that is sensitive to etoposide. We showed that this mutant is also resistant to etoposide toxicity, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We generated an additional mutant, top-2(ok1900) with a Q797M substitution, that is sensitive to etoposide. We showed that this mutant is also resistant to etoposide toxicity, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We generated an additional mutant, top-2(ok1900) with a Q797M substitution, that is sensitive to etoposide. We showed that this mutant is also resistant to etoposide toxicity, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupts the predicted binding of top-2 to etoposide. We used an in vitro binding assay to demonstrate that top-2(ok1930) is unable to bind etoposide, whereas top-2(ok1900) can. We showed that the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, whereas the Q797M substitution abolishes top-2 binding to etoposide, suggesting that this substitution disrupt
The study provides a comprehensive analysis of positive selection of genes in African mole-rats that have extended lifespans compared to other rodents. Using transcriptome and genome data, the authors identified genes under positive selection in the African mole-rat lineage and across different African mole-rat species. The authors highlight the potential functional relevance of the identified genes based on their involvement in processes that are known to be associated with longevity, such as translation, cellular respiration, iron ion homeostasis, and response to oxidative stress.
In this study, we evaluated the vector competence of Ae. albopictus mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia, a bacterium that has been shown to inhibit the transmission of arboviruses. The results of our study demonstrate that the introduction of Wolbachia into the genome of Ae. albopictus can significantly reduce the transmission of CHIKV, DENV, and ZIKV. We also found that the male mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia were more competitive in mating with wild-type females than the wild-type males. These findings suggest that using Wolbachia-infected male mosquitoes in the IIT strategy could be a promising approach to control mosquito-borne diseases.
In this study, we present a method for discovering novel domain-mediated interactions (DMIs) in 3D structures by combining atomic-level information from domain-peptide interfaces with statistical analysis of sequence data. The method is based on a probabilistic framework that uses a support vector machine (SVM) to identify DMIs in a training dataset of known 3D structures with labeled domain-peptide interactions. The SVM is trained using an ensemble of structural and sequence features, and the resulting model is used to predict interactions in a test dataset of unlabeled 3D structures. The performance of the model is evaluated using a benchmark of known DMIs from the Structural Classification of Proteins (SCOP) database. The method identifies 54 novel DMIs in the test dataset, which are confirmed by visual inspection of the corresponding 3D structures. We also present a comparison of our method with other approaches for DMI discovery, including sequence-based methods and a method based on the structural similarity of domain-peptide interfaces. Our method shows improved performance on the benchmark dataset, and we discuss the limitations and potential applications of our approach.
The small intestine lining, a single-cell layer, protects the body from invading bacteria and harmful environmental toxins. In the case of environmental enteropathy (EE), the lining is compromised and results in malabsorption of micronutrients. In this study, the researchers used confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) to investigate the barrier function of the small intestine lining in adults with EE. They found that EE is associated with increased epithelial cell shedding, which results in decreased villus height, villus surface area, and a decreased ratio of villus surface area to villus height. Furthermore, the researchers found that EE was associated with increased numbers of goblet cells and decreased levels of tight junction proteins. These findings suggest that EE is a result of impaired mucosal protection mechanisms and that it may be associated with decreased absorption of micronutrients. The researchers conclude that this is a step forward in understanding the pathophysiology of EE.
The study highlights the role of a viral protein called p28 in RNA replication and competition. The authors found that p28 is critical for RNA replication, and its expression during RNA replication is low compared to the replication rate. They also found that p28 is required to repress RNA replication from competing viruses. The study provides a potential mechanism for viral competition, and the results suggest that viruses have evolved ways to avoid or compete with other viruses in the same cell.
We have previously shown that DNA vaccines encoding the TS protein of T. cruzi can protect mice from acute T. cruzi infection and that protective immunity can be enhanced by the use of an adjuvant consisting of pCDNA3.1 plasmids encoding murine IL-15 (pIL-15). In this study, we have further examined the effects of IL-15 adjuvant on protective immunity against T. cruzi. We have found that vaccination of mice with pTS alone induced a relatively weak TS-specific immune response and that the addition of pIL-15 to this vaccine significantly increased the frequency and number of TS-specific CD8+ T cells and enhanced their proliferative capacity after restimulation. Moreover, we have found that vaccination with pTS + pIL-15 resulted in significantly enhanced protection against acute T. cruzi infection in mice, compared with vaccination with pTS alone. This protection was associated with increased levels of TS-specific antibodies and CD8+ T cells after challenge. These results suggest that the IL-15 adjuvant may be useful for enhancing the protective efficacy of DNA vaccines against T. cruzi infection.
The study reveals the role of WDR1 in the regulation of TbPLK abundance in Trypanosoma brucei. WDR1 interacts with TbPLK to form a complex, which is then degraded by the ubiquitin proteasome system. This complex is critical for the regulation of TbPLK abundance, which controls the assembly and elongation of the new flagellum and the duplication of the basal body.
This study uses the gene editing tool CRISPR/Cas9 to investigate the role of Ddx3x, a homologue of the Drosophila gene Drosophila developmental gene Ddx3, in the innate immune response to Listeria monocytogenes infection. The authors show that Ddx3x is necessary for the expression of certain cytokines in response to L. monocytogenes infection, and that it can regulate the transcription of type I interferon genes. The authors also demonstrate that the absence of Ddx3x leads to a higher rate of death from L. monocytogenes infection in female mice, but not in male mice. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of Ddx3x in the innate immune response to bacterial infection.
The model of pheromone perception in moths ORNs proposed in this study provides a comprehensive overview of the processes involved in pheromone detection, including pheromone binding to receptors, the activation of GPCRs, second messengers production, and the opening of cationic and Cl− channels. The model is based on the integration of experimental data on ORNs of A. mellifera and O. furnacalis. The model provides a detailed description of the mechanisms involved in pheromone detection, including the effects of the concentration of pheromone, the receptor, and the ion channels on the sensillar potential. The model also provides a quantitative description of the response of ORNs to different concentrations of pheromone and the dynamic range of the response. The results of the model suggest that the cationic channels are the major contributors to the rapid response of ORNs to pheromones, while the Cl− channels are responsible for the long-lasting response. The model also identifies the key factors that determine the response of ORNs to pheromones, including the receptor affinity and specificity, the concentration of pheromone, and the activity of the ion channels. The model provides a framework for understanding the mechanisms underlying the perception of pheromones in moths and can be used to predict the responses of ORNs to different pheromones and receptor mutants. The model also suggests potential targets for the manipulation of pheromone perception in moths, which may be useful for the development of pheromone-based methods for pest control.
This study explores the relationship between the chromatin state of p53-binding sites and the expression of nearby genes. It uses a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), gene expression analysis, and computational modeling to identify patterns in chromatin state and gene expression. The study finds that p53-bound regions tend to be accessible to transcription factors, and that this accessibility is correlated with gene expression. It also finds that the chromatin state of p53-bound regions is influenced by the presence of nearby transcription factor binding sites. These results suggest that the chromatin state of p53-binding sites may play a role in the regulation of gene expression.
Researchers have identified a single-kinase, two-response regulator (RR) motif in bacterial two-component signaling pathways that exhibits a sigmoidal signal-response relationship. This finding is important for understanding how bacterial cells respond to external signals and for designing synthetic biology circuits. The study also demonstrates the importance of considering the dynamics of signaling pathways, as well as the structure of the proteins involved.
We quantify heterogeneity in gene expression in single yeast cells by high-throughput scRNA-seq. Specifically, we analyze the impact of stress on the expression of ribosomal protein (RP) genes, which are known to be regulated by the Msn2/Msn4 TFs. We show that stress induces a dose-dependent increase in RP expression, but this increase is not accompanied by increased Msn2/Msn4 binding to RP promoters. The stress-induced increase in RP expression is thus likely regulated by other TFs, such as Dot6 and Sfp1, which are known to regulate RP expression in unstressed conditions. We further show that stress induces a decrease in the expression of many other genes, including genes involved in oxidative stress response and glycolysis. We found that the decrease in expression of these genes is accompanied by increased Msn2/Msn4 binding, suggesting that Msn2/Msn4 may be directly repressing these genes during stress. We also show that stress induces a decrease in the expression of many genes involved in cell-cycle regulation, which is accompanied by increased binding of the Dot6 repressor to these genes. Our results suggest that stress can cause changes in the regulation of many genes that are not directly involved in the stress response.
Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African sleeping sickness, is a parasite that can infect humans and many species of animals. In mice, T. brucei accumulates in the male reproductive organs and causes severe tissue damage and inflammation, which could impair fertility. Inflammatory cells infiltrate the stroma of the epididymis and the testis, and could disrupt the blood-testis barrier, which could allow parasites to enter the testis and epididymis. Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) was used to detect and quantify T. brucei in the male reproductive organs of mice. Parasites were found in high numbers in the epididymis and epididymal adipose tissue, but not in the testis. Inflammatory cells were also detected in these organs. The blood-testis barrier was disrupted in the epididymis and this may have contributed to the detection of parasites in that organ. FNAC could be used as a diagnostic tool in African sleeping sickness, particularly in livestock.
The transcription of genes encoding chemosensory receptors in Drosophila melanogaster is modulated by a variety of environmental stimuli. We investigated the expression of 172 chemosensory receptor genes in larvae and adults under a range of environmental conditions, including isolation versus group rearing, mating versus virginity, and sex. We found that the chemosensory receptor genes are highly sexually dimorphic and show widespread and heterogeneous responses to changing environmental conditions. The regulation of chemosensory receptor expression is modular, with groups of receptor genes responding independently to environmental stimuli. The results of our study suggest that the chemosensory system is highly adaptable and plays an important role in Drosophila's ability to navigate and adapt to its environment.
The study is about understanding the mechanisms of meiotic nondisjunction in human oocytes. Meiotic nondisjunction is the process by which chromosomes fail to separate during meiosis I, resulting in trisomic chromosomes in the resulting oocytes. The study used pachytene oocytes from 31 fetal ovarian samples, with gestational ages ranging between 14–23 weeks, collected at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle, Washington, or at the San Francisco General Hospital Women's Options Center in San Francisco, California. The samples were processed using a standard surface-spreading technique, and each ovary was placed in a sterile watch glass, covered in ∼2 ml of a hypo-extraction buffer, and incubated at room temperature for 45 minutes. Each ovary was cut into two sections and each section separately suspended in ∼75 µl of 100 mM sucrose. From each ovary, 10 µl aliquots of the cell suspension were spread across glass slides coated with 2% paraformaldehyde (pH 9.2) and incubated overnight at 37°C. The slides were then washed twice in 0.04% Photoflo™ in double-distilled water for 2 minutes and a 60 µl cocktail consisting of fluorescein anti-mouse and CREST anti-human was added to the slides. The slides were incubated overnight at 37°C, washed twice in PBS, and a drop of FluoroGuard Antifade Reagent was added to the slides, which were kept at 4°C until viewing under fluorescence optics. The study used immunostaining to analyze the presence of MLH1 foci in pachytene oocytes. MLH1 foci are used as a surrogate for crossovers during meiosis I. The study analyzed 1,035 pachytene oocytes from 31 fetal ovarian samples. The study analyzed 6 chromosomes (13, 16, 17, 18, 21, and 22) from a subset of seven representative cases (EC 69, 76, 91, 96, 98, 99, and 101). The study found that the chromosomes differ in their susceptibility to nondisjunction. The study also found that the distribution of MLH1 foci on the chromosomes varied, with some chromosomes having a tendency to have more MLH1 foci than others. The study used FISH to analyze the distribution of MLH1 foci on the chromosomes. The study found that the distribution of MLH1 foci varied on different chromosomes, with some chromosomes having a tendency to have more MLH1 foci than others. The study used computer simulations to determine the degree of crossover interference between chromosomes. The study found that some chromosomes have a tendency to interfere more with each other than others. The study suggests that the mechanisms of meiotic nondisjunction may vary depending on the chromosome involved. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of meiotic nondisjunction, which is a major contributor to genetic diseases in humans.
We used mathematical models to analyze the potential effects of vector saliva pre-sensitisation on the outcome of vector control interventions targeting vector survival. We found that pre-sensitisation through vector saliva can increase the duration of infection, which may offset the beneficial effects of vector control on reducing the total number of infected hosts. However, we also found that pre-sensitisation can increase the availability of susceptible hosts, which can enhance the effectiveness of vector control. We suggest that saliva pre-sensitisation should be considered in future studies of vector control, and that further research is needed to better understand the immunological effects of pre-sensitisation and their epidemiological consequences.
In this study, the authors compared the expression of 262 proteins from amastigotes of L. amazonensis obtained from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice. They found that 29% of the proteins had significantly different expression patterns between the two types of mice. These differences were associated with changes in the frequency of leukocytes in lymphoid organs of nude mice. The authors also observed differences in the abundance of trypanothione, peroxidoxin and oligopeptidase B isoforms in BALB/c and BALB/c nude derived amastigotes. These changes were confirmed by Western blotting. The authors suggest that the differences in the expression of specific isoforms of these proteins may be related to oxidative/nitrosative stress or may have protease/peptidase activity. They also suggest that the differences in the expression of these proteins could be related to post-translational modifications. These findings could lead to the development of new strategies for the control of leishmaniasis.
This study describes the construction of a set of lentiviral vectors that can be used to express different versions of the human antibody immunoglobulin mutant AID. AID is a key enzyme involved in the mutagenic process of somatic hypermutation (SHM), which allows B cells to diversify their antibody repertoire in response to infections and other antigens. Previous studies have shown that AID can be used to artificially induce SHM in B cells. In this study, the authors construct several different versions of AID and express them in Ramos cells, a human Burkitt lymphoma cell line. They find that these different versions of AID have varying levels of expression and stability, and also have different effects on SHM. The authors also discuss potential applications of these vectors, such as using them to induce SHM in B cells for the purpose of generating antibodies with improved properties.
Clostridia are anaerobic microbes that play a crucial role in the degradation of plant biomass. This study describes the identification and characterization of CAZymes (carbohydrate-active enzymes) from the soil-dwelling clostridium C . phytofermentans. The study uses transcriptomic, metagenomic, and enzymatic approaches to identify and characterize CAZymes that are up-regulated during growth on plant polysaccharides. The study identifies 56 CAZymes that are up-regulated during growth on plant polysaccharides. The study also provides evidence that CAZymes are highly specific to the type of polysaccharide they degrade and that CAZymes can work together to degrade complex polysaccharides. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of clostridia in plant biomass degradation and highlights the potential for engineering CAZymes to improve plant biomass conversion.
The study aimed to investigate the effect of three rounds of MDA on LF prevalence and density in the South Rwanda district of Kirehe. The results showed a significant reduction in LF prevalence after three rounds of MDA, with a reduction from 26.9% to 0.2%. The reduction in LF density was also significant, with a reduction from 5.13 to 0.01 mf/lr. These results suggest that MDA can effectively control LF in the Kirehe district. However, the study had some limitations, including the small sample size and the fact that the study was conducted only in one district of Rwanda. Further research is needed to confirm these results in other areas of Rwanda and to assess the long-term sustainability of MDA for LF control.
In this study, we applied a new method (SparCC) to infer correlations between species in high-throughput sequencing data, which is a widely used technique to study microbial communities in environmental and biological samples. SparCC is based on a log-ratio transformation of counts, and utilizes compositional effects to infer correlations. We compared the performance of SparCC to standard correlation methods on simulated and real data, and found that SparCC outperformed standard methods on both simulated and real data, and was robust to sparsity, density and diversity of the data. We then used SparCC to infer microbial interaction networks from the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) dataset. We found that SparCC inferred more correlations in the HMP data than the standard correlation methods, and many of these correlations were missed by the standard methods. We also found that SparCC was able to detect correlations in rare taxa, which are often missed by standard methods due to low counts. Overall, our results demonstrate the effectiveness of SparCC in inferring microbial correlations from high-throughput sequencing data.
Pneumococcal virulence is mediated by a number of factors, including adhesins, toxins, and cell wall components. However, pneumococci are also targets of the host immune system, which recognizes specific molecular patterns and mounts an appropriate response. One such molecular pattern is the pneumococcal cell wall, which is modified by peptidoglycan (muramyl tripeptide) acetylation and O-acetylation. These modifications help pneumococci evade host immune responses and enable them to survive in the nasopharynx of the human host. In this study, we demonstrate that these modifications can be used by the host immune system to enhance clearance of pneumococci from the nasopharynx, as well as the ability of the host to recognize and eliminate pneumococci that have spread beyond the nasopharynx. We show that peptidoglycan modifications have a significant fitness cost on pneumococci, and that they can have a negative impact on host colonization. Our findings suggest that modifications to pneumococcal peptidoglycan are important factors in determining the success of pneumococcal colonization and survival in the host.
Researchers from the Instituto Evandro Chagas, Federal University of Paraíba, Brazil, have developed a novel approach for the diagnosis of dengue fever fatal cases using NS1 antigen capture tests. The study involved 23 dengue fatal cases confirmed by virus isolation and RT-PCR, and their tissues (liver, lung, spleen, brain, skin, and thymus) were analyzed by three different NS1 capture assays (Early ELISA, Platelia NS1, and NS1 Ag Strip). The NS1 Ag Strip was found to be the most sensitive in detecting NS1 antigens in tissues, with a sensitivity of 78.3%. The findings suggest that the NS1 Ag Strip could be used as a complementary diagnostic tool for dengue fever fatal cases.
This study describes an analysis of the genomic data of newly diagnosed African American and Caucasian multiple myeloma patients. The analysis was done by comparing the gene mutations, copy number changes, and gene expression profiles between the two groups. The study found that there are significant differences in gene mutations and copy number changes between the African American and Caucasian patients. In addition, the study found that African American patients have a significantly higher frequency of mutations in certain genes compared to Caucasian patients. These findings have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of multiple myeloma.
In this study, we use a deterministic branching process to model the dynamics of mutations in a population of cancer cells. We investigate the probability that a mutation will eventually become fixed in the population, as well as the probability that it will become subclonal. We show that the probability that a mutation becomes subclonal is decreased when the mutation rate is high, and increased when the death rate is high. We also investigate the probability that a mutation will be fixed in the population by clonal expansion, and show that this probability is decreased when the mutation rate is high and increased when the death rate is high. Finally, we investigate the probability that a mutation will be fixed in the population by stem cell mutation, and show that this probability is decreased when the mutation rate is high and increased when the death rate is high.
Using a computational method that identifies compact structures of polypeptides by clustering, we found that the structure of the N-terminal region of XN1 differs from that of the XN1-P11-P10 constructs. The N-terminal region is more likely to have a β-sheet structure, whereas the XN1-P11-P10 constructs are more likely to have a β-strand structure. This suggests that the P11-P10 region suppresses the β-sheet structure of the N-terminal region. We also found that the P11-P10 region forms PPII helices. This finding is consistent with previous results that show that the formation of PPII helices in the P11-P10 region can prevent the formation of β-sheets in the N-terminal region. These results support the hypothesis that the PPII helices in the P11-P10 region play a critical role in the misfolding of XN1.
This study uses a novel targeted assembly approach to identify and characterize CRISPRs from human microbiome samples. The study finds that the targeted assembly approach is useful for an efficient and comprehensive characterization of CRISPRs in human microbiome datasets. The study also identifies CRISPRs that are missed by whole-metagenome assembly and characterizes their dynamics across body sites and individuals. The study also identifies novel CRISPRs by comparing CRISPR spacers against whole-metagenome assemblies. The study provides a comprehensive inventory of CRISPRs identified in human microbiome datasets and their distributions across body sites and individuals. The study also shows that CRISPR spacers can be used to identify new viral contigs in metagenome assemblies. The study demonstrates the potential of CRISPRs for understanding human and human microbiome biology better.
Circadian rhythmicity is a ubiquitous feature of life on Earth, with every organism from bacteria to mammals exhibiting some form of endogenous temporal organization. The molecular mechanisms that underlie circadian rhythms have been studied extensively in model organisms such as Drosophila and mammals, but much less is known about the circadian systems of other animals. In a recent study, researchers used genome-wide expression profiling techniques to identify circadian-regulated genes in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. They found that circadian rhythms in this organism are driven by a temperature-sensitive clock that regulates a large number of genes involved in metabolism and other cellular processes. The study provides important insights into the molecular mechanisms that underlie circadian rhythms in animals and may help to explain why these rhythms are so common throughout the natural world.
Using a combination of genetic and computational approaches, we found that the rad3-101 and rad3-102 mutants display elevated rates of recombination between homologs. We isolated and analyzed 200 diploid cells derived from two different rad3-101 and rad3-102 strains. We found that 34% of the cells contained one or more red/white sectors ( sectors ) that were present in the segregant cells. The frequency of sectors per cell division was 1.5-fold higher in the rad3-101 and rad3-102 mutants than in a wild-type control. Genomic DNA was isolated from 200 individual colonies and labeled with different fluorescent dyes. The DNA was hybridized to SNP microarrays and analyzed using computational approaches. We found that 37% of the sectors were derived from single-chromatid breaks and 63% were derived from double-chromatid breaks. We also found that the chromosome with the highest number of LOH events had 17 genes encoding TFIIH subunits , and that the same chromosome had several regions with high levels of gamma-H2AX , a marker of DSBs. These results suggest that DSBs or TFIIH-bound DNA lesions in unreplicated chromosomes are converted into double sister-chromatid breaks by DNA replication in the rad3-101 and rad3-102 mutants. The results also indicate that there are two types of recombinogenic DNA lesions in rad3 mutants: unrepaired single-stranded nicks that are converted into single chromatid breaks by DNA replication , and DSBs or TFIIH-bound DNA lesions that are converted into double sister-chromatid breaks by DNA replication .
In the present study we describe the identification and characterization of a novel promoter element in the H . pylori genome. This element, named the T-element, is located upstream of the sabA gene and has a poly-T repeat tract of variable length. We found that the T-element is a key regulatory element controlling the expression of the sabA gene and that the optimal repeat tract length for maximal sabA expression is 13 repeats. We also found that the T-element is a novel target for transcriptional regulation by σ70-RNAP, and that the binding of this transcription factor to the T-element is dependent on the length of the repeat tract.
We have recently reported that HPV proteins suppress the expression of the interferon-induced gene, ISG15, in order to suppress the innate immune response to allow for productive replication in differentiated cells. In this study, we demonstrate that HPV proteins modulate the expression of a subset of genes in the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway. HPV proteins induce the expression of STAT5α and STAT5β in undifferentiated cells, and suppress their expression in differentiated cells. Inhibition of STAT5 expression in differentiated cells blocked HPV genome amplification. Moreover, we found that HPV proteins activate STAT5 in undifferentiated cells, and that this activation is required for genome amplification in differentiated cells. We also found that HPV proteins activate the ATM/CHK2 DNA damage pathway in differentiated cells, and that this is required for HPV genome amplification. Finally, we found that HPV proteins activate the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) in undifferentiated cells, and that this activation is required for HPV genome amplification in differentiated cells.
This study used a new technology called Induced Variant Immunoscreening (IVIAT) to identify potential biomarkers of asymptomatic S. Typhi carriage. The study identified 56 immunoreactive proteins in the blood of S. Typhi carriers. Of these proteins, 13 had higher immunoreactivity when screened with the blood of S. Typhi carriers compared to healthy individuals living in a typhoid endemic area. The most immunoreactive protein was YncE, a putative ATP and DNA-binding protein. The study also screened the blood of S. Typhi carriers for the immunoreactivity of anti-Vi antibodies, which are currently used in diagnostic tests to identify S. Typhi carriers. The study found that anti-YncE and anti-Vi antibody responses could identify 8 out of 10 S. Typhi carriers, suggesting that these antibodies may be useful diagnostic biomarkers of S. Typhi carriage. The study also discusses the limitations of the study and suggests that further research is needed to evaluate the diagnostic capabilities of these antibodies in a larger and different cohort of patients. The study concludes that this technology could be used to identify new diagnostic biomarkers of S. Typhi carriage.
In this study, the authors investigate a new epigenetic phenomenon called trans-reactivation, which is defined as the increase in expression of a silenced allele of a gene in the presence of a non-functional allele. The authors first identify a number of non-functional alleles of the white (w) gene that can trans-reactivate a silenced wm4h allele when present in trans. They then show that trans-reactivation is heritable over multiple generations. The authors identify a number of different w* alleles that trans-reactivate the wm4h allele, but they fail to find a common sequence motif that could be responsible for this phenomenon. They then show that trans-reactivation requires the presence of diffusible RNAs. Finally, the authors show that RNA molecules produced by the homologous w* alleles can induce in trans the activation of the silenced wm4h locus through a yet to be defined mechanism in which post-transcriptional gene silencing and RNA methylation factors are involved.
Boophilin is a multi-functional inhibitor of pro-inflammatory proteases found in the midgut of the tick R. microplus . It is a non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin , with a Ki in the nanomolar range , and it blocks thrombin-induced platelet aggregation . Boophilin also inhibits the amidolytic activity of kallikrein and FXIa, and prevents the reciprocal activation of FIXa by FXIa, with effects on the coagulation cascade. Boophilin has anti-thrombotic activity in vivo , inhibiting carotid artery thrombosis induced by FeCl3 . This study provides novel information on the mechanisms of action of Boophilin and its anti-thrombotic properties, which might be related to its anti-inflammatory activity.
SEGMEnT is a new computational model of the intestinal epithelium that simulates the dynamics of epithelial cell populations and the molecular signaling pathways that control their behavior. The model includes both qualitative and quantitative representations of the signaling pathways that regulate cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and death, as well as the physical processes that control cell migration and tissue morphogenesis. SEGMEnT has been calibrated to produce stable, plausible ileal crypt-villus architecture in a homeostatic state and can simulate the effects of perturbations such as inflammation or injury. The model has been used to investigate the role of specific signaling pathways in the maintenance of tissue architecture and the response to perturbations, and has been used to develop new hypotheses about the mechanisms underlying intestinal diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease.
We report the successful invasion of Wolbachia in a Brazilian Aedes aegypti population. The release of Wolbachia-infected Ae. aegypti in the city of Tubiacanga, Brazil, was conducted over 26 weeks, with the release of 25 million mosquitoes per week. The frequency of Wolbachia infection in the released mosquitoes was 90% and reached 80% after 18 weeks of releases. This frequency was maintained for 12 months after the last release. During the period of releases, the frequency of kdr alleles was increased in the wild population, and this increase was linked to the inability of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes to invade the local population. The inability of Wolbachia to invade was linked to the resistance of the local population to pyrethroids. Insecticide resistance was not assessed prior to releases, and this likely led to the failure of Wolbachia invasion in this population.
Here, we have demonstrated that a B12-like viral protein in vaccinia virus (VACV) inhibits DNA replication and has a role in viral pathogenesis. We have developed a B12-deficient virus that is highly attenuated and used it as a tool to study the function of B12. We have shown that the B12-like protein is necessary for viral growth in many cell lines, and its deficiency results in an increased production of type I interferon, a host response to infection. We have also demonstrated that B12 interacts with the host transcription factor BAF, which inhibits viral DNA replication, suggesting that B12 acts as a virulence factor by inhibiting host defense mechanisms. Our results provide important insights into the role of B12 in viral replication and pathogenesis.
We have studied the conformational behavior of two intrinsically disordered peptides, LK and EALA, with built-in hydrophobic amphiphilicity, using molecular dynamics simulations. In bulk water, the peptides are partially disordered and adopt multiple conformations. Upon contact with an interface, LK forms a stable α-helical dimer, whereas EALA forms a broad distribution of transient secondary structural elements including α-helical elements. AK, which has reduced hydrophobicity, does not form a stable dimer. The differences in the behavior of the peptides are related to the balance of hydrophobic forces, electrostatic repulsion, and intermolecular hydrogen bonds. The macroscopic vacuum/water interface has a strong effect on the conformational behavior of the peptides, particularly for LK and EALA, but not for AK.
In this study, we used a novel integration assay to investigate the role of the telomere repeat arrays (TMR) of HHV-6A in integration. We found that the TMR are crucial for efficient HHV-6A integration into the host telomeres, and that deletion of either the pTMR or impTMR resulted in severe impairment of integration. In addition, our data suggests that the pTMR play a major role in integration while the impTMR only play a minor role. Our study sheds light on the molecular mechanisms of HHV-6A integration and provides important insights into the maintenance of the virus genome in latently infected cells.
This manuscript presents the first structure of a poxvirus protein, the membrane-binding protein D13. The structure was obtained through cryo-electron microscopy, which is a powerful method for resolving macromolecules at high resolution. The structure of D13 was determined by using the contrast transfer function from the negatively-stained protein, which was used to phase the protein in the 3-D reconstruction. The structure of D13 reveals a trimeric organization with each subunit composed of a jelly-roll β-barrel. The structure also shows that the protein binds to lipid monolayers, which is consistent with previous biochemical studies. The authors also point out that this structure is the first to be obtained from a poxvirus protein, which is an important step towards understanding the fundamental mechanisms of these viruses.
The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants in Brachypodium distachyon were found to have decreased shoot height and biomass, as well as a decreased leaf area compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants also had a decreased primary root length and a decreased number of lateral roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had a decreased number of shoot-borne leaves, as well as a decreased number of crown roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had a decreased biomass partitioning to shoots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had a decreased shoot/root ratio compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had a decreased root/shoot ratio compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of tillers compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased shoot branching compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased root branching compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of adventitious roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of lateral roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased root length compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of seminal roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of crown roots compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased root hair length compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased seminal root length compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased meristem size compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased root meristem size compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased shoot meristem size compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot meristem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root meristem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot apical meristem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root apical meristem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot lateral meristems compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root lateral meristems compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot central meristems compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root central meristems compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot cortex compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root cortex compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot endodermis compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root endodermis compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot columella compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root columella compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot stele compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root stele compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot protoxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root protoxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot metaxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root metaxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot transverse xylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root transverse xylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot endodermis compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root endodermis compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot columella compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root columella compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot stele compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root stele compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot protoxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root protoxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot metaxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root metaxylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot transverse xylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root transverse xylem compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the root pericycle compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of cells in the shoot endodermis compared to the wild type. The Bdrh2-1 and Bdrh2-2 mutants had an increased number of
This study examines the different ways genes can evolve to increase their expression in response to selection. The authors find that both classes of genes, DPN and OPN, can evolve in the same way initially, but then take different paths to further increase expression. They also find that the way expression evolves can have a big impact on how long that evolution persists. These findings suggest that there may be multiple ways to achieve the same goal, and that the specific route taken can affect the long-term stability of that solution. This study provides valuable insight into the mechanisms of gene expression evolution and the constraints that might shape it.
In this study, we have investigated the mechanisms of cellular senescence induced by Tax, the transforming protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). We have found that Tax activates NF-κB, leading to the stabilization of p21 and p27 mRNAs through an APC/C-dependent mechanism that is upstream of pRb and p53. These data suggest that NF-κB activation triggers cellular senescence via the p21/p27-APC/C pathway. We have also shown that Tax-induced senescence is mitigated by the stabilization of HBZ, a Tax-inhibitory protein expressed by HTLV-1. Our findings have important implications for understanding the etiology of HTLV-1-associated diseases and the development of new therapeutic strategies.
The study by Lang and colleagues presents a new computational model of executive function that captures the flexibility and adaptability needed for humans to thrive in uncertain environments. The study shows that the model is consistent with human decision-making in a task-switching experiment. The model suggests that executive function monitors task sets for reliability and creates new ones when existing ones become unreliable. The study highlights the importance of monitoring and the ability to switch between different strategies in uncertain environments for adaptive decision-making. The findings have implications for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying executive function and decision-making.
We have developed ADAPT, a new modeling approach to study the effects of a pharmacological intervention on a biological system. The approach uses dynamic trajectories of metabolic states, parameters, and fluxes to describe the adaptations induced by a treatment. These trajectories are obtained by inferring necessary changes in the model parameters to match the experimental data. The presented approach allows to identify the cascade of molecular adaptations that occur upon treatment and can be used to identify the mechanisms responsible for treatment outcome and to design new or additional target interventions if needed.
The cerebellum is a key brain structure that helps maintain balance and control movements. It receives signals from the brain and spinal cord about what the body is doing and adjusts movements accordingly. However, the cerebellum has a limited number of neurons that receive these signals, which makes it difficult for the cerebellum to process all the information it receives. To overcome this limitation, the cerebellum uses a combination of different ways to process information. One way is to recombine information from different sources in a way that is useful for controlling movements. However, there are many different ways that this information could be recombined, and it is unclear which combinations the cerebellum uses. To understand this better, researchers used a mathematical model to investigate how the cerebellum could process different combinations of information. The model showed that the cerebellum could use a limited number of projections to recombine information in a way that was useful for controlling movements. The model also showed that different types of information could be recombined in different ways. These findings provide new insights into how the cerebellum processes information and could help improve our understanding of how to treat movement disorders.
MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression. The authors of this article used microarray analysis to identify 90 miRNAs in the mosquito Aedes albopictus. They then used small RNA sequencing to identify 8 more miRNAs in the same mosquito species and 9 novel miRNAs. They also found that several of these miRNAs were differentially expressed upon infection with the mosquito-borne virus chikungunya. The authors then used computational biology to predict the targets of these miRNAs and studied their roles in various biological pathways.
Ceccal echinococcosis (CE) is a zoonotic disease caused by the larval stage of the tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus. It is prevalent worldwide and can cause significant economic losses due to its effects on both humans and livestock. A new study published in the journal Parasites and Vectors has estimated the annual monetary burden of CE in Iran to be US$232 million, with more than half of the losses being indirect costs associated with human CE. The study found that the economic burden of CE in Iran is substantial, with direct and indirect costs accounting for 37% and 63% of the total cost, respectively. The study also found that the economic burden of CE is heavily concentrated in rural areas, with 80% of the total cost being borne by rural populations. The study recommends that more research is needed to better understand the economic burden of CE in Iran and to develop effective control strategies for the disease.
This study provides insight into the transcriptome changes in mouse fibroblast cells infected with a polyomavirus. The study utilizes deep sequencing of total RNA and alignment to the viral and host genomes to investigate changes in viral and host RNA expression. The study identifies viral and host genes that are significantly upregulated or downregulated in response to infection and provides a detailed analysis of the viral early and late strand transcripts, including the accumulation of dsRNA and editing of viral RNA. The study also identifies changes in host gene expression that are consistent with the action of the virus on host cells.
The article presents a mathematical model for predicting the maximal distance that an endurance runner can run before "hitting the wall" - i.e., before experiencing a severe carbohydrate depletion that leads to exhaustion. The model incorporates factors such as running speed, the runner's physiological characteristics (such as leg muscle mass and liver glycogen density), and the energy demands of the metabolic processes involved in running. The model predicts that the maximal distance that a runner can run without exhaustion is inversely proportional to running speed, and that this distance is strongly influenced by the runner's physiological characteristics. The authors provide a number of practical applications of the model, including estimating the maximal running distance that a runner can achieve without glycogen depletion, predicting the optimal running pace for a given distance, and estimating the carbohydrate requirements of a runner to sustain a particular running speed.
In this study, we conducted a transcriptomic analysis of human and mouse macrophages infected with different Toxoplasma strains. We found that several genes are differentially regulated in response to infection with different strains. In particular, we observed a robust type II-specific induction of genes encoding IFN-γ, a cytokine that is associated with resistance to toxoplasmosis. We also found that different strains induce differential expression of several genes involved in the type I IFN response, including IRF3, IRF7, and RIG-I. Finally, we show that Toxoplasma induces type I IFN signaling in a way that is independent of RIG-I.
In this study, the authors present a novel assay to study RNA recombination in poliovirus. By combining a temperature-sensitive defective viral replicon with a non-replicating RNA template, the authors were able to isolate and study recombinant viruses that were generated via replicative and non-replicative mechanisms. The authors also explored the effect of mutations in the viral polymerase on recombination and replication and propose a model for the mechanism of replicative recombination.
We found that Oct3 is a catecholamine-binding receptor that is abundantly expressed in mouse white adipose tissue (ingWAT). Oct3 expression is induced by NE in ingWAT, and Oct3 knockout (KO) mice have decreased Ucp1 expression and increased BAT activity. These effects are mediated through the activation of the β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) signaling pathway, which leads to increased expression of genes involved in thermogenesis and mitochondrial biogenesis. In addition, Oct3 KO mice have decreased lipolysis and increased NE reuptake in ingWAT. These results suggest that Oct3 plays a critical role in regulating the metabolic functions of ingWAT, and that it may be a target for the development of new treatments for obesity.
In this article, the authors describe a mechanism by which the binding of the histone H3 Shadock region by HP1α and HP1γ proteins may regulate chromatin remodeling by the hSWI/SNF complex. The authors show that the hSWI/SNF complex binds the H3 Shadock region and that HP1α and HP1γ bind to the same region. They also show that HP1α and HP1γ inhibit hSWI/SNF chromatin remodeling, and that this inhibition may occur through competition for binding to the H3 Shadock region. Overall, the authors suggest that the binding of HP1α and HP1γ proteins to the H3 Shadock region may be a regulatory mechanism for controlling chromatin remodeling by the hSWI/SNF complex.
This study presents a new way to analyze RNA sequences called "self-containment". Self-containment is a measure of how well an RNA sequence can be folded into a stable structure without changing its sequence. The study shows that some RNA sequences, such as miRNA precursors, have a high self-containment. This property suggests that miRNAs are more likely to be preserved in evolution and function across different species. The study also shows that other RNA sequences, such as tRNAs, have a low self-containment. This suggests that tRNAs may be more likely to evolve into different types of RNAs, such as miRNAs.
In this study, we present an in-depth analysis of the molecular mechanisms underlying plant susceptibility to fungal pathogens. We used the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, which is highly susceptible to infection by the fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. To identify key molecular factors that mediate susceptibility, we performed a comprehensive analysis of differentially expressed genes in zfp2, bhlh99, pap2 and at1g66810 mutants, which are resistant to B. cinerea infection. Through this analysis, we identified a set of 77 genes that are commonly up-regulated in all four mutant backgrounds. We further characterized the expression of these genes in response to B. cinerea infection and found that they are involved in various biological processes, including defense-related signaling and secretion of signaling peptides. We also identified 13 additional proteins that are predicted to localize to the membrane and are differentially expressed in the zfp2, bhlh99, pap2 and at1g66810 mutants. These results provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying plant susceptibility to fungal pathogens and may lead to the development of new strategies for crop protection.
This study shows that a constitutive knockout of Foxo1 in mouse endometrial epithelium causes infertility due to impaired decidualization. The study also demonstrates that the constitutive knockout of Foxo1 in mouse uterine stromal cells does not cause infertility. The study also shows that Foxo1 in mouse uterine stromal cells has a role in decidualization. These results suggest that Foxo1 in mouse endometrial epithelium and stromal cells have different functions in the WHO.
The study was conducted to develop a Bayesian geostatistical model to determine the spatial and temporal variation in dengue incidence in Bangladesh. The study used data from the Bangladesh national dengue surveillance system for the period 2000 to 2009. The results of the study showed that increasing temperature and decreasing diurnal temperature range were significantly associated with high incidence of dengue. The study also found that dengue incidence was positively associated with mean monthly rainfall at lag two months and population density. The study identified several districts with high transmission risk but without reported cases. The study showed that the model captured the spatial variation in dengue cases in Bangladesh and provided a useful tool for prioritizing and targeting dengue control and elimination interventions across the country.
In this study, we uncover a new type of preferred place in mice called "knots". Knots are established by mice during exploratory behavior of an open field arena. Knot-scribbling, the behavior generating these places, is performed by the mice during sporadic recurrent visits to the knot during the session. Knots are characterized by a high path density, by frequent visits that do not involve scribbling, and by a higher speed on the way into the knot than on the way out of it. There is at most one knot per session and it is established in a circumscribed location having distinct boundaries. Knots are neither characterized by maximal cumulative dwell time, nor by maximal number of stops. Mice tend to perform knot-scribbling at the point of introduction into the arena, although they leave these places immediately after being placed there. Deciphering the function of knots will require extensive experimental manipulations, but perhaps while scribbling at the knot the mouse recalibrates its locale map and compass directions.
Our study identified a novel anti-fungal compound, NGx04, that inhibits the cell wall integrity pathway in Cryptococcus neoformans through Sec14p. This compound was found to be cidal against both the wild-type and azole-resistant C . neoformans strains and was able to cross the blood-brain barrier, making it a potential therapeutic for C . neoformans infections. The work presented here is an important first step towards the development of a new class of anti-fungal compounds that target the cell wall integrity pathway.
The aminoalcohols are a class of antimalarial drugs that have shown promising activity against schistosomiasis. In particular, the drug mefloquine has shown high activity against both the adult and juvenile stages of S. mansoni in mice. Our study demonstrated that a single oral dose of mefloquine (200-400 mg/kg) resulted in total worm burden reductions of up to 72% and 87% in adult and juvenile S. mansoni-infected mice, respectively. In contrast, a single oral dose of quinine and halofantrine showed only moderate activity against S. mansoni in mice. The activity of mefloquine against the juvenile stages of S. mansoni was particularly high, with total worm burden reductions of up to 76% and 87% in mice infected with 21-day-old and 49-day-old juvenile S. mansoni, respectively. These findings indicate that mefloquine is a promising candidate for further investigation as a treatment or prophylaxis for schistosomiasis.
This study aimed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the geographical distribution of podoconiosis, a non-filarial elephantiasis, in Cameroon. It used a combination of clinical, parasitological, and serological diagnostic methods to exclude other potential causes of lymphedema and differentiate them from podoconiosis. The study found that podoconiosis was widespread across Cameroon and that the Northwest region had the highest prevalence. The findings suggest that Cameroon is poised to eliminate podoconiosis if services are rapidly expanded to high-prevalence foci. The study highlights the need for a health systems response to eliminate podoconiosis in Cameroon and other affected countries.
This study is about the interaction between the stem cell niche in Drosophila ovaries and the stem cell-specific gene Notch. The authors found that the Notch protein is expressed in both the stem cell niche and the stem cells themselves, and that expression levels increase with age. They also found that the stem cell niche contains cells that are in direct contact with the stem cells and have a higher expression of the Notch target gene Ecad. Moreover, they observed that the Notch-induced expression of Ecad is differentially regulated in the stem cells and the niche cells. Finally, they found that the Notch pathway is required for the maintenance of the stem cell-niche contact in the ovaries.
The human herpesviruses are a diverse family of viruses that establish life-long infections in humans. Despite their close evolutionary relationships, they encode a highly divergent family of proteins called CHPKs (cyclin-dependent kinases) that are important for viral replication. Using a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, we have analyzed the ability of these viral CHPKs to disrupt PML-NBs (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ co-activator 1α nuclear bodies), a cellular structure involved in viral defense. We found that CHPKs from all viral families could disrupt PML-NBs, although this activity appears to be less conserved among the eight viral CHPKs than their ability to phosphorylate Cdk substrates. We also found that CHPKs from the beta- and gamma-herpesvirus families could rescue growth defects in viruses that lacked their cognate CHPKs, suggesting that CHPKs from these two families have more overlapping functions. Our findings suggest that CHPKs may have evolved to have different but partially overlapping functions in different viral families, and that the primordial CHPK may have had functions that are now divided among the viral CHPKs.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacteria that causes the infectious disease melioidosis. It is found in many parts of the world. Scientists wanted to know more about where B. pseudomallei is found so they can better prevent infections. They looked at studies done between 1912 and 2011 to figure out the best way to find it in the environment. They found that many studies were done, but not all used the same methods and some of them found B. pseudomallei and some did not. The scientists came up with guidelines on the best way to find B. pseudomallei in the environment and made these freely available to researchers around the world. This will help scientists to better understand where B. pseudomallei is found so they can prevent more infections.
A peptide that specifically inhibits the infectivity of dengue virus (DENV) is described. The peptide is derived from the stem region of the dengue envelope protein and is able to bind to the viral envelope with high affinity. This binding is thought to interfere with a conformational transition that is required for fusion of the viral envelope with the host cell membrane. The peptide has potential for use as a therapeutic or prophylactic agent against DENV infection.
Cholera is a major public health issue, with over 1 million cases and 120,000 deaths annually. Vibrio cholerae is the etiological agent responsible for this disease, and it is critical to understand its molecular epidemiology to develop effective control strategies. In this study, the authors demonstrate that dried stool specimens can be successfully used for WGS to characterize cholera outbreaks. They collected stool specimens from patients with cholera in Cameroon and preserved them on filter papers. The DNA was then extracted from the filter papers using various methods. The authors found that APW-enriched stool specimens on filter papers provided the best DNA quality and quantity for WGS. They then sequenced the DNA from these samples and identified several genetic features, including the absence of the ctxA gene, the presence of the tcpA gene, and the lack of recombination between the ctxB and tcpA genes. These findings provide valuable insights into the molecular epidemiology of V. cholerae and may lead to the development of more effective control strategies for cholera.
The process of apico–basal polarity is essential for the formation of many types of tissues and organs in animals. In Drosophila, apico–basal polarity is regulated in part by the Baz, Crb, and Sdt proteins, which form a complex that is targeted to the apical membrane. We have shown that Dynein, a minus-end directed microtubule motor, plays a crucial role in the apical localization of these proteins. We have also shown that the sdt mRNA isoform SdtA is specifically localized to the apical surface in the FCs, while the other Sdt isoform, SdtB, is localized elsewhere. Our results suggest that Dynein may be involved in the apical localization of SdtA mRNA. We have also shown that the Crb complex is targeted to the apical membrane by Dynein, and that the knockdown of Dhc, the heavy chain of Dynein, leads to the loss of Crb from the apical membrane. Our work highlights the importance of microtubules and motor proteins in the regulation of apico–basal polarity.
This study aimed to investigate the genetic diversity of Leishmania infantum strains isolated from cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis patients in Turkey. The study found that the most common genotype in cutaneous leishmaniasis was MON-1, while the MON-2 genotype was predominant in visceral leishmaniasis. Additionally, the study identified two novel hybrid strains with a yellow fluorescent phenotype and the ability to survive and replicate in THP-1 macrophages. These results provide insight into the genetic diversity of Leishmania infantum strains and highlight the importance of considering the source of infection when diagnosing leishmaniasis.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by the protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania. This disease is transmitted by the bites of infected female sandflies, and can cause cutaneous lesions, mucocutaneous lesions, and visceral lesions depending on the species of parasite and the host's immune response. The current study investigated genetic diversity of Leishmania donovani parasites isolated from Ethiopian patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using kinetoplast DNA (kDNA) PCR and high-resolution melting (HRM) curve analysis. The study found that kDNA PCR and HRM curve analysis can be used to distinguish between different strains of Leishmania donovani based on the size of the kDNA-PCR amplicons and the HRM curve patterns. The study also found that the HASPB gene, which encodes a surface antigen of Leishmania parasites, is highly polymorphic in East African Leishmania donovani strains and may play a role in parasite differentiation and host specificity. The study suggests that kDNA PCR and HRM curve analysis may be useful tools for epidemiological and diagnostic studies of visceral leishmaniasis.
In the study, the authors used a computational model to analyze the distribution of HIV-1 recombination breakpoints across its genome. They found that the majority of recombination breakpoints are not of significant importance to the evolution of HIV-1 and are mainly a result of random template switching. However, they identified specific regions of the genome where recombination events have a higher probability of being important, including the envelope gene and the gp120 coding region. The authors' findings highlight the importance of understanding the genetic diversity of HIV-1 and the mechanisms underlying its recombination.
In this section, we will discuss a Bayesian hierarchical algorithm that allows us to update individual parameter estimates based on group parameters. The algorithm, known as the Hierarchical Bayesian Inference (HBI) algorithm, is an iterative process that involves computing summary statistics for each model, updating group parameters using those statistics, and then updating individual parameters using the group parameters and the prior distributions. The HBI algorithm can be used in many applications, including reinforcement learning and Bayesian regression.
In this study, we used genetic mouse models to investigate the role of r4 in the development of the auditory system. We found that Hoxb1, a patterning gene expressed in r4, is crucial for the proper development of the auditory neuronal circuitry. In Hoxb1 null and late-conditional knockout mice, auditory thresholds were increased and ABR waveforms were altered, which suggested a defect in auditory perception. Moreover, in these mice, we observed a loss of auditory neurons, including MOC and AVCN neurons, which may be responsible for the auditory defects. We also found that Hoxb1 is crucial for the expression of Atoh1 in r4-derived neurons. Furthermore, we used immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization to investigate the expression of Hoxb1 and Atoh1 in the auditory system, and we found that both genes were expressed in r4-derived neurons, including MOC and AVCN neurons. Our results suggest that Hoxb1 and Atoh1 play important roles in the proper development of the auditory system.
This article presents the genome sequence of the bacterium Sphingomonas sp. 2-40, which is able to degrade a wide variety of complex plant cell wall polysaccharides. The genome sequence reveals that 2-40 encodes an extensive repertoire of carbohydrate-degrading enzymes, including glycoside hydrolases, polysaccharide lyases, and carbohydrate esterases. The genome also contains a large number of carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs), which are non-catalytic domains that can increase the specificity and affinity of carbohydrate-degrading enzymes. The authors analyzed the phylogenetic relationships of the carbohydrate-degrading enzymes in the genome and found that many of them are closely related to homologs in other bacterial species, such as Pseudomonas spp. and Rhizobium leguminosarum. The authors also compared the genome sequence of 2-40 with other bacterial genomes, and found that it has a large number of genes involved in carbon metabolism, transport, and storage. The authors conclude that the genome of 2-40 provides insights into the metabolic pathways used by this bacterium to degrade plant cell wall polysaccharides, and will be useful for understanding the mechanisms of plant cell wall degradation in marine environments.
JEV is a major etiological agent of viral encephalitis worldwide. There are 2 genotypes of JEV, GI and GIII, with the GIII genotype being the most dominant etiological agent in the past 20 years. Recently, the GI genotype has taken over the GIII genotype as the most frequent etiological agent in some Asian countries. It has been speculated that mosquitoes may play a role in JEV genotype shift. In this study, Cx . pipiens mosquitoes from China were used as an in vivo model to compare the infectivity of GI and GIII viruses. The results demonstrated that GI and GIII viruses have similar infectivity in Cx . pipiens mosquitoes. However, it is likely that the conclusion drawn could be extrapolated to the role of mosquitoes in JEV genotype shift.
This article, titled "Epidemiology, Clinical Characteristics and Causes of Death of Dengue Fever in Malaysia: A National Cohort Study," provides a detailed analysis of dengue fever cases in Malaysia. It includes information about the demographics of those affected, the clinical characteristics of the illness, and the causes of death. The study found that dengue fever is still a major public health concern in Malaysia, with the majority of cases occurring in adults. The study also highlights the importance of early diagnosis and treatment for dengue fever to reduce the risk of severe disease and death. The study suggests that there is a need for continued research to better understand the pathogenesis of dengue fever and to develop effective prevention and treatment strategies. Overall, this study provides valuable information for healthcare professionals and policymakers working to address the dengue fever epidemic in Malaysia.
The goal of this study was to understand the molecular basis of reliable mate choice in Drosophila melanogaster. To achieve this, the authors manipulated the insulin signaling pathway in different tissues of the female fly and measured the resulting changes in cuticular hydrocarbon (CHC) composition and fecundity. They found that insulin signaling in late follicle cells (LFCs) and fat bodies is important for regulating CHC composition and that low insulin signaling in the fat body and high signaling in LFCs are associated with increased attractiveness and fecundity. The authors also found that the late follicle cell driver Yolk-Gal4 can be used to create a genetic background that allows for the selective expression of UAS transgenes in LFCs, providing a new tool for studying the molecular basis of mate choice in D. melanogaster. Overall, this study provides important insights into the mechanisms underlying reliable mate choice in D. melanogaster.
This study aimed to quantify the basic reproductive number (R0) of the Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak in West Africa from 2013 to 2015. R0 is a measure of the average number of secondary cases that can be generated by one primary case in a population with no prior immunity. The authors estimated R0 at district level in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone using a statistical modeling approach. The results showed that R0 was below the epidemic threshold of 1 in many districts in the three countries, suggesting that transmission was subcritical in those areas. However, in some districts, R0 was above the epidemic threshold, indicating that transmission was critical in those areas. The authors found that the spatial distribution of R0 was clustered at district level and that several socio-demographic variables, including high population density, low wealth index, and time taken to walk to the nearest water source, were positively associated with R0. The authors conclude that their findings highlight the importance of urbanization and large-scale crowding in the rapid spread of EVD and suggest that interventions targeting these factors may be effective in preventing future outbreaks.
What determines how fast a protein evolves over time? In this study, we investigate the relationship between protein age and evolutionary rate. We find that younger proteins are evolving faster than older proteins, even after controlling for other factors such as protein structure and the type of protein. We also explore how different protein age classes relate to evolutionary rates. We find that the youngest age class evolves more slowly than older age classes, even though the younger class is more designable and has more buried residues.
In this study, the authors analyze the role of Polycomb-like protein 3 (Pcl3) in regulating Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) activity in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). The authors find that Pcl3 promotes PRC2 activity and is required for the maintenance of H3K27me3 levels in ESCs. They also identify two CpG-rich DNA sequence motifs that Pcl3 binds to. These findings suggest that Pcl3 may play a role in recruiting PRC2 to CpG islands in ESCs.
In this study, we investigate how the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway regulates feeding behavior in C. elegans. We demonstrate that the insulin/IGF-1 pathway regulates feeding behavior via its effects on the transcriptional activity of the bHLH family of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors. Specifically, we show that DAF-2, the insulin receptor, phosphorylates and activates DAF-16, a transcription factor that belongs to the bHLH family. We further show that DAF-16 regulates feeding behavior via its effects on the expression of bHLH genes that encode transcription factors expressed in the intestine and ADL neurons. We show that DAF-16 regulates the expression of a bHLH gene, hlh-2, that encodes a transcription factor that is expressed in ADL neurons, and that hlh-2 regulates feeding behavior by controlling the expression of a chemosensory gene, srh-234. We also show that DAF-16 regulates the expression of a bHLH gene, hlh-3, that encodes a transcription factor that is expressed in the intestine, and that hlh-3 regulates feeding behavior by controlling the expression of an insulin-like peptide gene, ilp-11. Our study suggests that the insulin/IGF-1 pathway regulates feeding behavior via its effects on the bHLH family of transcription factors.
This study has provided new evidence of a strong dose-response relationship between the detection of Mycobacterium ulcerans in mosquitoes and the risk of disease in humans in a highly endemic area in Australia. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that mosquitoes are involved in the transmission of M. ulcerans to humans. However, further work is needed to demonstrate that mosquitoes are true biological vectors of the bacteria.
In this study, we report a characterization of the molecular defect underlying a previously described demyelination model in rats. We found that the demyelination phenotype is caused by a mutation in the Mrs2 gene, which encodes an inner mitochondrial membrane protein involved in magnesium transport. We also showed that this mutation leads to mitochondrial dysfunction and that transgenic expression of a functional copy of the Mrs2 gene can rescue the demyelination phenotype. These findings provide a new understanding of the relationship between mitochondrial function and myelin homeostasis and suggest a possible role for mitochondria in myelin maintenance.
Microarray gene expression signatures have the potential to be powerful tools for patient stratification, diagnosis, prognosis, risk group selection, and treatment. However, current documentation standards do not allow for an unambiguous application of these signatures to study-external patients. This hinders independent evaluation, effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice. Data from eight publicly available clinical microarray studies were analyzed, and the consistency of study-internal with study-external diagnoses was evaluated. Study-external classifications were based on documented information only. Documenting a signature is conceptually different from reporting a list of genes. Even the exact quantitative specification of a classification rule alone does not define a signature unambiguously. The median discrepancy between study-internal and study-external diagnoses was found to be 18% when using the standard documentation strategy. By using the proposed documentation by value strategy, which documents quantitative preprocessing information, the median discrepancy was reduced to 1%. The process of evaluating microarray gene expression diagnostic signatures and bringing them to clinical practice can be substantially improved and made more reliable by better documentation of the signatures.
This study investigates the ability of a family of D-peptides to inhibit CsgA fibril formation and curli biofilm production in Escherichia coli. CsgA, a curli-associated protein, is a key component of the curli biofilm matrix in E. coli. The study utilized a variety of techniques to evaluate the efficacy of the D-peptides, including fibrillation assays, fluorescence spectroscopy, and atomic force microscopy. The results showed that the D-peptides could significantly inhibit fibril formation and curli biofilm production. The study also investigated the mechanism of inhibition, which appears to involve binding of the D-peptides to CsgA monomers, preventing their aggregation into fibrils and resulting in a more soluble protein. The findings of this study have important implications for the development of therapeutics targeting curli biofilm-associated infections.
Japanese encephalitis is a viral infection of the brain that is caused by the Japanese encephalitis virus. It is a common cause of encephalitis, or swelling of the brain, in Asia. The virus is spread through the bite of mosquitoes that have bitten an animal infected with the virus. The virus infects humans, causing a range of symptoms from mild fever and headache to severe brain swelling and death. The virus is more likely to cause severe illness in children and the elderly. The Philippine government wants to consider introducing a vaccine against Japanese encephalitis to protect its population. However, there is limited information available about the prevalence and distribution of Japanese encephalitis in the Philippines. To help address this, a group of researchers conducted a systematic review of all available published information about Japanese encephalitis in the Philippines. They found that the virus is endemic in the country and causes significant illness and death, particularly in children. They also found that there are large geographic areas of the country where Japanese encephalitis is common. Based on their findings, the researchers recommend that the Philippine government consider introducing a vaccine against Japanese encephalitis to protect its population. They also recommend that the government improve its surveillance of Japanese encephalitis to help measure the impact of any vaccination program and to guide future public health efforts to prevent the disease.
Metabolic robustness is a key feature for bacterial species to maintain their viability under changing environments. In this study, we assessed the level of metabolic robustness in 487 bacterial species by analyzing the topology of their metabolic networks and their ability to produce essential metabolites. We found that most bacterial species exhibit robust metabolic networks, which are adaptive to their lifestyle and metabolic capabilities. We also found that the level of robustness is associated with the species' ability to utilize multiple carbon sources and to produce secondary metabolites. Our findings provide a framework for understanding the evolution of metabolic robustness in bacteria and can be used to predict the viability of species under different environmental conditions.
The study aimed to investigate the effect of active Schistosoma mansoni infection on measles immunisation response in children. The study found that children with S. mansoni infection had lower measles antibody levels following vaccination compared to uninfected children. However, treatment with praziquantel before measles immunisation boosted the immune response to measles vaccination in S. mansoni infected children. These findings suggest that active S. mansoni infection may impair measles immunisation response and that praziquantel treatment before measles immunisation may improve the immune response to measles vaccine. These results have important implications for public health programs in areas where both S. mansoni infection and measles vaccination are common.
The genetic structure of a bacterial population is a fundamental question in population genetics and epidemiology. The software BAPS, which is based on Bayesian analysis, was introduced to infer the population structure of a bacterial population. The current work presents a modified version of BAPS which is able to handle a much larger number of strains and genes. The modification involves the use of stochastic learning algorithms instead of the original Gibbs sampler algorithm. The performance of the modified BAPS was tested on the Neisseria meningitidis dataset which is the largest publicly available dataset of this kind. The results suggest that the modified BAPS is able to correctly identify the population structure of the Neisseria meningitidis population even when the dataset contains over 10,000 strains. The software BAPS is available for download from http://baps.bioinformatics.org/.
Here we provide a detailed model of attentional gain control in the visual cortex. We propose a model of the visual cortex that consists of nine cell populations and use the model to simulate various conditions that occur during attention. Our model uses a combination of neuronal dynamics, synaptic connectivity, and attentional mechanisms to simulate the effects of top-down and bottom-up signals on attentional gain control. We show how the model can simulate a range of attentional phenomena, including alpha and gamma rhythms, attentional modulation of sensory signal processing, and the effects of attention on gain control of sensory inputs. We also show how the model can be modified to simulate the effects of cholinergic signaling on attentional gain control.
The manuscript "A new method for the calibration of epidemic models using likelihood-based approaches" presents a new calibration method for epidemic models based on likelihood-based approaches. The proposed method uses the Laplace approximation to estimate the likelihood function of epidemic data and the state transition matrix of the epidemic model. The method was applied to a range of epidemic models and data sets, including influenza, SARS, and Ebola. The results showed that the proposed method outperformed existing calibration methods in terms of parameter accuracy and the ability to accurately predict the course of the epidemic. The manuscript also discussed the limitations of the proposed method and suggested future research directions to improve the method's performance. Overall, the manuscript provides a valuable contribution to the field of epidemic modeling and calibration and highlights the potential of likelihood-based approaches for accurately estimating epidemic parameters.
In this study, we propose a two-source model of serial dependence in which two different mechanisms, history bias and adaptation, work together to influence perceptual judgments. We first conducted a series of experiments using a variety of stimuli and decision tasks to demonstrate the presence of serial dependence and the ability of our model to make accurate predictions. Then, we used a hierarchical Bayesian model to estimate the parameters of the two mechanisms and found that both mechanisms contributed to the observed serial dependence. Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of serial dependence and have important implications for perceptual decision-making and visual cognition.
Clock proteins such as CLOCK and BMAL1 are conserved across species and play a central role in regulating circadian rhythms. However, it is not clear if the function of clock proteins is conserved across all species. This study examines the function of the Drosophila clock protein CYC in regulating circadian rhythms. It finds that the fusion protein CYC-VP16 is able to drive circadian rhythms in Drosophila, indicating that it can replace the function of CYC. The study also finds that the fusion protein is able to enhance the activity of the CLOCK-CYC complex, indicating that it can work in addition to replacing the function of CYC. Overall, the study provides evidence for the conservation of function of the clock protein CYC across species.
We have identified two different PmrB proteins, one from Salmonella and the other from Escherichia coli, that can activate the PmrA/PmrB system of the PhoP/PhoQ two-component regulatory system in the presence of low magnesium. These proteins differ by a few amino acids, and this difference results in a different ability to activate the PmrA/PmrB system. We found that the Salmonella PmrB protein is able to promote the expression of PmrA-dependent genes when the system is activated by low magnesium, whereas the E. coli PmrB protein is not. We propose that the Salmonella PmrB protein may have evolved to have this ability in order to promote the expression of genes that are needed for survival in low magnesium environments.
This article describes a new method for detecting differentially expressed genes during the differentiation of embryonic stem cells. This method uses statistical analysis to identify genes that show changes in expression between two time points during the differentiation process. The authors applied this method to detect genes that are differentially expressed between early and late stages of embryonic stem cell differentiation into embryoid bodies. They validated their findings by using shRNA knockdowns to target two of the identified genes and observing the effects on stem cell differentiation.
We have developed a novel method of controlling for bias in functional analyses of gene variants. We found that genes implicated through de novo sequence variants are biased in their coding-sequence (CDS) length, with longer CDS genes tending to be more interconnected in functional networks. We have developed a tool for controlling for this bias, which improves the accuracy of functional analyses. We examined three sets of genes implicated through rare de novo variants in autism spectrum disorder and found that they cluster significantly more in an integrated phenotypic-linkage network than in other gene networks. We have also developed a web-based resource for the toolkit used in this study, which is available at http://groups.mrcfgu.ox.ac.uk/webber-group/resources .
Mexico's 2014 taxes on non-essential energy-dense food and sweetened beverages were associated with a 25 g/capita/month decline in volume purchased of taxed foods beyond what was expected based on pre-tax trends. Lower SES households bought less taxed food than expected in 2014, whereas medium and high SES households did not change. Untaxed food purchases did not change. In 2014, the volume of sugar and sugar-substitutes purchased continued to increase, and salty snacks and cereal-based sweets decreased. The tax did not have an effect on overall food purchases.
The current study presents a novel model (n-ψ) for the Lobula Giant Movement Detector (LGMD) that describes its response to object motion. The model incorporates both excitatory and inhibitory input and is based on biophysical principles. It is designed to simulate the LGMD's response to approaching and receding objects, as well as to different velocities of the same object. The model also incorporates the effects of noise on LGMD response. The results of the study show that n-ψ accurately describes the LGMD's response curves and provides an excellent fit to experimental data. The model also reproduces the main response properties of the LGMD, such as the response peak, the linear relationship between time to collision and object size, and the sensitivity of the model to noise. The study suggests that the n-ψ model is a plausible biophysical description of LGMD response to object motion.
The paper is a summary of the progress made in the Buruli ulcer (BU) control program in Cameroon from 2002 to 2014. The program was set up in 2002 and aimed to reduce the suffering of people affected by BU. The program has achieved many goals, such as detecting more cases of BU early and improving the quality of care for patients. However, the program has faced some challenges, such as limited funding and a lack of diagnostic and management skills among health personnel. The paper also highlights the importance of research and advocacy in improving the control of BU.
"The current study investigates how the valence of decision outcomes affects confidence judgments in a reinforcement learning task. We find that learning to avoid losses generates lower confidence than learning to seek gains, even when the choice options are objectively the same. This valence-dependent confidence bias is also observed in a transfer task where participants choose between pairs of unfamiliar items. We propose that this confidence bias is a result of individuals' ability to predict their future performance in the task. Specifically, we find that confidence is a linear function of previous confidence, choice difficulty, and the context value from a context-dependent reinforcement learning model. These findings demonstrate the importance of considering the role of context in decision-making, and highlight the potential usefulness of confidence judgments as a proxy for subjective uncertainty estimates in reinforcement learning."
This article describes the identification of host cell factors involved in the replication of several RNA viruses. The authors used a combination of screening assays and pull-down experiments to identify cellular proteins that interact with viral nonstructural proteins. They found that amphiphysin-1 and -2, two host cell proteins that are involved in membrane dynamics and intracellular transport, interact with the nonstructural proteins of several RNA viruses, including SFV, SINV, and CHKV. These interactions are critical for viral replication, and targeting amphiphysins-1 and -2 with small interfering RNA reduces viral replication. The authors also found that amphiphysin-1 and -2 are important for the formation of replication complexes and membrane rearrangements during virus replication. Overall, these findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of RNA virus replication and suggest that amphiphysin-1 and -2 may be potential targets for antiviral therapy.
A new species of black fungus that causes chromoblastomycosis, Cyphellophora ludoviensis, has been described. This species was found in skin lesions from a case of chromoblastomycosis in Brazil, and is morphologically and clinically similar to two other species in the genus Cyphellophora. A new species of rhinocladiella-like black fungus that causes chromoblastomycosis, Rhinocladiella tropicalis, has also been described. This species was found in skin lesions from a case of chromoblastomycosis in Brazil, and is morphologically and clinically similar to Rhinocladiella aquaspersa. Both Cyphellophora ludoviensis and Rhinocladiella tropicalis have been reported to cause infections in humans. The taxonomic status of these species is not well-defined, and further research is needed to understand their relationships to other species in the Chaetothyriales.
In this study, we investigated the role of the DNA damage response (DDR) in preventing Listeria monocytogenes infection. We found that the DDR plays a crucial role in limiting Listeria infection in human cells by promoting DNA repair and preventing cell death. We also showed that Listeria can evade the DDR by secreting a toxin that degrades the DDR protein Mre11. Our findings suggest that targeting the DDR could be a promising strategy for developing new treatments against Listeria infection.
Herpesviruses are a family of enveloped DNA viruses that cause lifelong infections in humans and animals. As a result of their long-term persistence, herpesviruses are an important cause of chronic diseases such as fibromyalgia, herpes encephalitis, and autoimmune diseases. HSV-1, the causative agent of cold sores, is the prototype of Alphaherpesviruses and is a human pathogen. HSV-2, another member of Alphaherpesviruses, is the causative agent of genital herpes and is responsible for one billion infections worldwide. To develop effective antiviral treatments against herpesviruses, it is important to identify their targets. A recent study by Wei et al. identified BRD4 as an essential factor for HSV-1 and HSV-2 infection. BRD4 is a member of the BET family of proteins that bind to acetylated lysine residues in histone tails. BRD4 is involved in various cellular processes including transcriptional regulation, chromatin remodeling, and DNA damage repair. The study found that HSV-1 infection induced the transcriptional expression of BRD4 and that BRD4 was required for HSV-1 replication. The study also found that BRD4 was required for HSV-2 infection. The authors used a small molecule inhibitor of BRD4 to show that inhibition of BRD4 suppressed HSV-1 and HSV-2 infection. This study highlights the importance of BRD4 as a target for the development of antiviral treatments against herpesviruses.
This study was conducted on 36 children who were examined and sampled at the Sentinelles clinic in Zinder, Niger. The aim of the study was to investigate the microbial communities in the mouths of children with noma, a disease that affects children in Africa and results in tissue death, and compare them with healthy children from the same region. The study found that children with noma had a microbial community that was distinct from that of healthy children. The study also found that the microbial communities in the mouths of children with noma were more diverse and contained more pathogenic bacteria than those of healthy children. These findings suggest that the microbial community in the mouth may play a role in the development of noma.
Bacillus thuringiensis is a bacterium that causes the wilting of plants. The bacterium contains a plasmid called nprX that encodes a protein that inhibits the bacterium from causing wilting. The protein inhibits by binding to a regulatory region of the bacterium's genome that controls its ability to cause wilting. The bacterium also contains a protein called NprR that can cause the bacterium to produce enzymes that are harmful to plants. The NprR protein is inhibited by the NprX protein, which prevents it from activating the bacterium's ability to produce harmful enzymes. The bacterium also produces a protein called NprX that can activate the bacterium's ability to produce harmful enzymes. The NprX protein is inhibited by the NprR protein, which prevents it from activating the bacterium's ability to produce harmful enzymes. The NprX protein can also activate the NprR protein, which in turn can inhibit the NprX protein, creating a feedback loop that regulates the bacterium's ability to produce harmful enzymes. The NprR and NprX proteins are involved in a regulatory system that controls the bacterium's ability to produce harmful enzymes. The regulation of this system is important because it determines whether the bacterium will cause wilting or not.
We have developed and characterized robust models for predicting resistance to HIV antiretroviral drugs. These models are based on a large dataset of HIV mutants and drug-sensitivity measurements, and are designed to be able to predict resistance to a wide range of different drugs. We have also developed a method for interpreting the models to identify the specific mutations that are causing resistance to each drug. We have validated the models on a large and diverse set of HIV mutants, and found that they are able to accurately predict resistance to all three classes of antiretroviral drugs. We have also found that the models are able to identify known resistance mutations, and are able to predict new resistance mutations that have not been previously identified. These models will be a valuable tool for predicting and preventing resistance to HIV antiretroviral drugs.
We have presented a pseudopod-centered model of chemotaxis that is based on the proposal that the cell's own behavior generates the leading edge through a process of autocatalytic protrusion. The model is able to account for the main experimental observations of chemotaxis without invoking external signals or hidden internal processing. By using a computational model, we have been able to show how the behavior of the cell can lead to chemotactic movement by a mechanism that is not dependent on receptor signaling or signal processing. The model also predicts the emergence of lateral pseudopods and a wavelike pattern of pseudopod positioning, which were not expected in a traditional compass-based model. The pseudopod-centered model can account for the observed behavior of cells both in the absence and presence of a chemoattractant. The simplicity of the model and its ability to accurately replicate experimental data suggests that it may provide a useful framework for further understanding of chemotaxis and its underlying mechanisms.
The fleas Xenopsylla cheopis and Oropsylla montana are efficient vectors of Yersinia pestis, which causes plague. We found that fleas infected with bacteremic mouse blood had a significantly higher rate of early transmission by BDT than fleas infected with bacteremic rat blood. Transmission efficiency was lower by EPT, and biofilm production did not appear to be required for transmission by either mechanism. We also found that fleas infected with bacteremic mouse blood had a significantly higher rate of early transmission by BDT than fleas infected with bacteremic rat blood. Transmission efficiency was lower by EPT, and biofilm production did not appear to be required for transmission by either mechanism.
The article discusses the importance of data analysis and how it can be used to make informed decisions. It explains that data analysis can help identify trends, patterns, and outliers that might not be immediately apparent. It also highlights the value of statistical methods in data analysis and the potential for data analysis to improve decision-making. The article emphasizes the need for careful data collection and analysis to ensure accurate results and avoid misinterpretations. Overall, the article argues that data analysis is a crucial tool for making informed decisions and that it can help organizations and individuals make better choices based on available information.
We have developed a cholera conjugate vaccine containing the immunogenic Inaba OSP of V. cholerae O1 El Tor strains. This vaccine was immunogenic in mice and induced high-level anti-OSP antibody responses, including IgG responses that were functional and protective against cholera. Intradermal immunization induced OSP-specific IgA responses in intestinal tissue. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using an immunogenic carrier protein and squaric acid chemistry to develop a cholera conjugate vaccine that displays OSP in an immunologically relevant manner.
The study aimed to assess the specificity of the ICT (Immunochromatographic Test) for mapping loiasis and mansonellosis in Cameroon. The study was conducted in four health districts in the Eastern and Northwestern regions of Cameroon. The study population consisted of 2190 individuals aged 15 years and above. The ICT was used to detect circulating filarial antigen in the peripheral blood. The results showed a high prevalence of L. loa Mf in the ICT positive cases, with a geometric mean Mf density of 7396 . 5/ml, compared to a low prevalence of M. perstans Mf, with a geometric mean Mf density of 3040/ml. The study also demonstrated a strong correlation between the ICT positivity rate and the prevalence of L. loa Mf, as well as between the ICT positivity rate and the Mf density of L. loa in ICT positive cases with high Mf loads. In contrast, there was no correlation between the ICT positivity rate and the M. perstans Mf prevalence or Mf density. The study also identified 17 individuals who were positive for both L. loa and M. perstans Mf.
Using electron microscopy, we have characterized the network of reticulate membranes that is associated with replication of SARS-CoV, a coronavirus that causes the deadly COVID-19 disease. The membranes appear to form a replication complex that is important for the viral RNA synthesis. The replication complex is likely involved in forming membrane vesicles that enclose the replication machinery.
The protein encoded by the A. thaliana gene At2g28670, a putative member of the proline-rich repeat (PRR) protein family, is expressed in the endodermis of roots but not in leaves. Loss-of-function mutants of At2g28670 have altered root suberin composition, including increased levels of aliphatic components. The resulting alterations in root permeability affect the shoot ionome, leading to increased Ca, Mg, Fe, As, Se, Mo, and decreased Mn, Ni, Co, Zn, and Na. Transpiration is decreased in these mutants due to reduced stomatal aperture. The delayed wilting and increased water use efficiency of these mutants are attributed to enhanced root suberin. The altered ionome and WUE of these mutants are attributed to root-derived signals.
The single photon response (SPR) is a fundamental property of photoreceptors that is related to the photon-switching kinetics and provides the basis for a model to study photoreceptor function. A model that describes photoreceptor function must take into account the different steps of phototransduction, the duration of each step, and the probability of each step. The model must be able to predict the temporal dynamics of phototransduction and the various parameters that describe phototransduction, such as the duration of each step, the probability of each step, and the total time required for phototransduction. The model must also be able to predict the temporal dynamics of the single photon response and the different parameters that describe the single photon response, such as the rise time, decay time, and the total duration of the response. The model should also be able to predict the sensitivity of the photoreceptor to light and the response to different intensities of light. The model should also be able to predict the effects of different mutations or pharmacological agents on phototransduction and the single photon response. The model should also be able to predict the effects of the environment on phototransduction and the single photon response. The model should also be able to predict the effects of the phototransduction machinery on phototransduction and the single photon response.
The dynamics of stochastic reaction networks within cells are affected by extrinsic factors that are considered to be outside the network, such as fluctuations in ribosome copy numbers for a gene regulatory network. To analyze such systems, a new mathematical framework has been developed that uncouples the network from its dynamic environment by incorporating only the environment's effect onto the network into a new model. This decoupled model can be analyzed using process- and master equations and stochastic simulations can be performed. The approach has been demonstrated using several case studies, showing its significance. The mathematical framework developed in this work is self-contained, summarizing all system behaviors attainable under all possible realizations of the extrinsic fluctuations, allowing for an uncoupled analysis of a reaction network subject to extrinsic noise.
We have proposed a novel adaptive open-loop feedback control (OFC) framework for training a point process (PP) BMI to control a virtual cursor. The framework consists of three main components: an optimal feedback control (OFC) model for inferring brain intention, an assisted training paradigm for extending the training time, and a spike-event-based adaptation paradigm for improving the time-scale of decoder adaptation. The OFC model allows us to estimate the brain’s intention based on the spike-events in the decoder’s output. The assisted training paradigm extends the training time by dynamically controlling the target velocity and adding a chance level performance. The spike-event-based adaptation paradigm improves the decoder’s time-scale by applying an adaptive policy to automatically adjust the decoder parameters in response to every spike-event. We tested this framework in a non-human primate over 89 days and found that it results in robust, consistent, and extended BMI control, compared to current CLDA paradigms. We also found that the OFC model results in higher success rates compared to existing intention estimation methods. Furthermore, we found that the spike-event-based adaptation paradigm results in faster convergence during decoder adaptation, compared to batch-based methods. We also extended the decoder to control various tasks and showed that the proposed framework can generalize to different tasks. Overall, our results demonstrate the feasibility of this adaptive OFC framework for training BMIs in closed-loop operation.
The study reports a systematic analysis of visual responses of retinal ganglion cells to stimuli varying in spatial and temporal correlations. The authors used a technique called spike-triggered averaging to estimate the receptive fields of neurons, and then measured the correlations between pairs of receptive fields. They found that retinal ganglion cells showed a preference for spatio-temporally uncorrelated stimuli, and that this preference was robust to changes in stimulus contrast. The authors also found that the responses of retinal ganglion cells were more similar to responses to white noise than to uncorrelated stimuli, suggesting that redundancy between retinal cells is useful for signal processing. The authors suggest that their findings may be relevant to the mechanisms underlying visual perception.
We have developed a novel approach to predict synthetic lethal interactions between pairs of genes in yeast. This approach uses a multi-classifier ensemble system that consists of a set of non-parametric classifiers trained using a large number of features derived from different sources. The features used in our approach include individual data sets and overlay data sets constructed by combining multiple data sets. We used 152 features that are independent of the known genetic interaction (GI) network, as well as 15 features that depend on this network. We also developed several novel features that are independent of the known GI network, which were shown to be effective at predicting novel synthetic lethal interactions. We applied our approach to predict novel synthetic lethal interactions among all pairs of 9994 non-essential yeast genes, using 125,509 synthetic lethal interactions as the training data. We showed that our approach outperforms the current state of the art and is able to predict novel synthetic lethal interactions with high accuracy. We also demonstrated the utility of our approach in predicting SL interactions between transcription factors, a task that is currently difficult due to the lack of empirical data. Finally, we discussed the potential applications of our approach to genome-wide synthetic lethality screens and to the development of new therapies for cancer and other diseases.
This article describes the BRCA Challenge, a collaborative initiative of over 250 global research institutions, companies, and advocacy groups that aims to aggregate and harmonize genomic and clinical data for BRCA1 and BRCA2, two genes that are associated with an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer. The BRCA Challenge is part of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health (GA4GH), a consortium of over 1,000 organizations worldwide that aims to accelerate the sharing of genomic and health-related data to advance human health. The BRCA Challenge is specifically focused on creating a comprehensive data resource that can support clinical care, research, and advocacy efforts related to BRCA1 and BRCA2. To achieve this goal, the BRCA Challenge has developed the BRCA Exchange, a web-based platform that allows users to access and search for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants and their associated clinical data. The BRCA Exchange aggregates data from a variety of sources, including genetic testing laboratories, genome sequencing projects, and clinical databases. The BRCA Exchange also includes a variety of tools and features that are designed to help users make sense of the large amount of data that is available and to help them find the information that they need. Overall, the BRCA Challenge represents an important step toward creating a global system for sharing and harmonizing genomic and clinical data for cancer predisposition and other important health conditions.
The study of the redox system of malaria parasites is a difficult task, as Plasmodium parasites have evolved to live within the redox-inactive environment of the human host. In this study, the authors present a comprehensive analysis of the redox-related proteins in Plasmodium parasites. They discovered new components of the redox-related enzyme system in the parasite, including a mitochondrion-targeted thioredoxin and a mitochondrion-targeted peroxiredoxin. These findings provide new insights into the redox metabolism of Plasmodium parasites and highlight potential targets for antimalarial drug development.
In this study, we performed simulations using a coarse-grained molecular dynamics model of the p53-TAZ1 complex to investigate the effects of electrostatic interactions on the binding kinetics of the complex. The simulations were carried out in the presence and absence of electrostatic interactions using the Debye-Hückel model to account for the influence of ionic strength on the electrostatic interactions. The results showed that electrostatic interactions play a significant role in the binding of the p53-TAZ1 complex, as evidenced by the reduced capture rate at higher ionic strengths. Additionally, the simulations revealed that the capture rate is largely determined by the non-native electrostatic interactions between the N-terminus of PUMA and Mcl-1.
This study presents an analysis of the motion of chromatin domains and polycomb proteins during early Drosophila embryogenesis. The authors used live-cell imaging to track the motion of fluorescently labeled histones, polycomb proteins, and chromatin domains. They found that chromatin domains and polycomb proteins move coordinately in restricted, confined volumes within the nucleus. The authors also found that the motion of chromatin domains and polycomb proteins decreases during embryogenesis as the nucleus becomes smaller. These findings suggest that chromatin domains and polycomb proteins form a single, highly-constrained nuclear structure. The authors' observations of coordinated motion of chromatin domains and polycomb proteins provide insights into how these structures may be involved in regulating gene expression during embryogenesis.
We sequenced the mtDNA of liver tissues from three different genotypes of mice. We found that the mutation load is higher in mtDNA mutator mice than in their mtDNA wildtype siblings, as reported previously. We also found that the point mutation frequency is much higher in mtDNA mutator mice than in mtDNA wildtype mice. The mitochondrial control region (a non-coding region) has a lower mutation frequency than the coding regions in both genotypes. We did not detect any significant difference in the mitochondrial mutation load with age in mtDNA wildtype mice. We did not find any evidence of a contribution of circular mtDNA molecules with large deletions to the aging phenotype in mtDNA mutator mice.
The Na+-coupled F1Fo-ATP synthase from Fusobacterium nucleatum contains a unique c-ring that has two glutamate residues in each of its 11 binding sites. These glutamates are constitutively protonated, and the structure of the c-ring is such that one Na+ and one H+ can be bound concurrently to each site. These findings indicate that Fusobacterium nucleatum primarily uses the sodium motive force (SMF) to drive ATP synthesis, with H+ co-transport occurring only to a very limited extent. This is in contrast to the well-studied mitochondrial F1Fo-ATP synthase, which primarily uses the proton motive force (PMF) to drive ATP synthesis, with Na+ co-transport occurring to a much lesser extent. The discovery of this unique c-ring in Fusobacterium nucleatum and its Na+-coupled mechanism provides new insights into the evolution of ATP synthases and their coupling to different ion gradients.
In this study, we compared the in vivo and in vitro T cell responses to a panel of peptide ligands with varying affinities for a high-avidity T cell receptor (TCR). We found that the TCR was able to recognize and respond to all peptide ligands in vitro, but only responded to the strongest ligand in vivo. This observation suggests that there may be a threshold for the avidity of TCR ligands beyond which T cell responses are not fully realized in vivo. Our results do not support the hypothesis that high-avidity TCR recognition always results in a more potent T cell response in vivo.
The genome sequence of Neurospora haematococca isolate MPVI is presented, along with an analysis of its repeat content and chromosome structure. The genome contains 12,125 predicted genes and is 48.7 Mb in size.
We have developed a new method to visualize the process of alpha herpesvirus exocytosis using fluorescent protein tags and live-cell microscopy. This technique allows us to track the intracellular transport of viral particles and to observe their egress in real time. We used the model herpesvirus PRV-180 to investigate the mechanisms of exocytosis and found that most particles egress via a process that involves rapid release of virus particles from the cell surface. We also found that microtubule motors recruit viral particles to the plasma membrane for exocytosis.
This study examines the relationship between intestinal microbiota and the immune system. It finds that a higher diversity of microbiota in the gut is associated with a stronger immune system, including increased levels of secretory immunoglobulin A (SIgA) and increased levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines. The study also shows that the presence of a parasite called Enterobius vermicularis can alter the composition of the gut microbiota and the immune system. Specifically, the study finds that the presence of the parasite is associated with a decrease in the diversity of the gut microbiota and a decrease in levels of SIgA. However, when the parasite is treated with an anthelmintic drug, the levels of SIgA increase. The study suggests that the anthelmintic drug has an effect on the gut microbiota and the immune system, although the exact mechanisms are not clear. Overall, the study provides important information about the relationship between the gut microbiota and the immune system and the potential effects of parasites and anthelmintic drugs on these systems.
In this study, we have used a genome-wide association (GWA) approach to identify the genetic basis of root length in Arabidopsis thaliana. We have identified 258 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that significantly affect root length, and we have estimated that approximately 10% of the variance in root length can be attributed to additive genetic effects. We have also identified 100 pairs of loci that have epistatic interactions, where the genetic effects of each locus depend on the allele present at the other locus. Our study provides a comprehensive view of the genetic factors that influence root length in Arabidopsis thaliana, and highlights the importance of considering both additive and epistatic effects when studying complex traits.
Genetic mutations are changes in the nucleotide sequence of DNA. Mutations are common and occur throughout life. Some mutations can be harmful and lead to disease. The frequency of harmful mutations varies among different groups of people. Some groups of people are more likely to have certain types of harmful mutations than others. In this study, we investigated whether the frequency of certain types of harmful mutations varies among different groups of people. We analyzed the DNA of 30,506 people from different parts of the world to determine the frequency of harmful mutations in each group. We found that some groups of people were more likely to have certain types of harmful mutations than others. These findings suggest that genetic factors may influence the risk of certain types of harmful mutations.
Our study provides a computational model for the collective migration of neural crest cells on a microstrip. The model incorporates cell-cell contact signaling, which we hypothesize is regulated by a chemical inhibitor generated at contact . Our simulations accurately reproduce the four distinct phenotypes of cell-cell collisions observed experimentally in both epithelial and neural crest cells, including robustly reversing, sticking, walk-past, and chaining events. We find that the four parameters controlling cell-cell adhesion ( contact repolarization kCR, front repolarization kFR, critical overlap Ocrit, and the adhesion strength σ ) can be carefully tuned to control the rate of each of the four outcomes . Our simulations predict the quantitative statistics of cell-cell collision outcomes that have been observed experimentally in [20] , including the ∼25% sticking rate, ∼73% reversal rate, and ∼4% walk-past rate. We also model the influence of other experimental variables, including stripe width, on the outcomes of cell-cell collisions. Our results provide a computational framework for understanding the interactions between cells in a collective migration assay and can help guide experimental design for future studies.
The interaction between thioredoxin and arsenite reductase has been studied to understand the thiol/disulfide exchange reactions. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations showed that thiol/disulfide exchange reactions are most favorable along the sulfur-sulfur axis. In this way, the reactivity analysis strongly supported that Cys29Trx is more likely to attack Cys89ArsC than Cys32Trx. The pKa calculations indicated that Cys29Trx is more likely to be a nucleophilic thiolate than Cys32Trx. Further, the correlation between the pKa's of the reacting and leaving thiols is a poor predictor of the regioselectivity of a thiol/disulfide exchange reaction. In this work, a more accurate method is proposed for studying thiol/disulfide exchange reactions by combining DFT calculations, pKa calculations, reactivity analysis, and experimental work. This new method provides a more reliable explanation of the thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism.
This study examined the extent to which discounting preferences are influenced by learning about the preferences of others. Participants were presented with hypothetical scenarios that asked them to make choices about how much they would discount a reward in order to wait for a larger reward in the future. The study found that participants shifted their discounting preferences towards more patient options when learning about the preferences of others who faced the same decisions. These findings suggest that social influence can play a role in shaping our preferences and decision-making, and that this effect may be driven by a mechanism of belief updating based on the similarity of others' preferences to our own.
The Msb2p membrane protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a key regulator of filamentous growth and polarization in yeast. It is an important component of a signaling pathway that controls the activity of the Ras GTPase, and thus influences cell cycle progression and the formation of pseudohyphae, a filamentous form of growth that is used to overcome nutrient limitations. In this study, the authors carried out a genome-wide screen to identify regulators of Msb2p function. They found that the RasGAP Swi1p is important for Msb2p activity, and that the Ras pathway itself is important for Msb2p-dependent filamentous growth. They also identified several novel regulators of the Msb2p-Ras pathway, including the Flo11p and Hkr1p proteins. They found that Flo11p is required for the recruitment of Msb2p to the plasma membrane and for the activation of the Ras pathway. They also found that Hkr1p is required for the formation of pseudohyphae and for the activation of the Ras pathway. These findings provide important insights into the regulation of filamentous growth and polarization in yeast.
We have recently begun a comprehensive comparison of gene expression across perithecial development in five fungal species, Neurospora crassa, Neurospora discreta, Neurospora tetrasperma, Fusarium graminearum, and Fusarium verticillioides. We have identified 18 genes in F . graminearum that are knocked out, and exhibit phenotypes during late perithecial development that are not present in the wild type strain. Using the protein sequence of the largest and the second largest subunit of DNA-directed RNA polymerase ( RPB1 and RPB2 , respectively) as a phylogenetic indicator, we have constructed an ultrametric tree of the five fungal species, and inferred the ancestral state for the expression of these 18 genes. This has allowed us to determine which of these genes were present at the most recent common ancestor ( MRCA ) of the five species, and which arose later in each lineage. We have then used Bayesian network modeling to infer the regulatory module for each of these genes, and the regulatory modules for other genes that also exhibit late perithecial phenotypes. We have further compared the regulatory modules we have inferred for genes that exhibit late perithecial phenotypes in F . graminearum with those for genes that exhibit late perithecial phenotypes in N . crassa , and those for genes that are differentially expressed during early perithecial development in N . crassa. We have also used the expression data we have inferred to determine which genes are important for perithecial development, and which are important for the evolution of the perithecium.
Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistosoma, which infect around 250 million people worldwide. One of the most effective ways to treat schistosomiasis is through mass drug administration (MDA) of the anti-helminthic praziquantel (PZQ). While PZQ is highly effective against schistosomiasis, it does not cure the infection, and it is not effective against other intestinal helminths. As such, there is a need for alternative anti-helminthic drugs with a broader spectrum of activity.
The PMT model is a computational method that studies the dynamic responses of macromolecular assemblies. It is based on the idea that signal perturbations can be used to study the dynamic responses of all residues simultaneously across many decades of time. This is done using a Krylov subspace projection method, which provides a solution to the underlying master equation. The model has been applied to the GroEL-GroES chaperone system and the results show that it is able to identify important residues such as pivot, messenger, and anchor residues. These residues are important for macromolecular movement, messenger transmission, and binding interactions. The accuracy of the model's predictions is high and has been verified by experimental studies.
In this paper, we describe a novel approach to study the role of carbohydrates in the pathogenesis of nematode parasites. We discovered a novel lectin-ligand interaction between the fungal lectin CGL2 and a carbohydrate motif on the intestinal epithelium of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This interaction is responsible for the nematode's resistance to fungal infection. We identified the responsible carbohydrate motif as an alpha-fucosylated beta-galactoside. The intestinal epithelium is the preferred site of CGL2 action, where CGL2 is internalized and accumulates. We found that the lectin-ligand interaction is critical for the parasite's survival and that the parasite's sensitivity to fungal infection is dependent on the type of fungal lectin. We hope that our findings will lead to the development of new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of parasitic infections.
This study presents a mathematical model of HIV evolutionary dynamics within and between individuals. The within-host model incorporates a latent reservoir of long-lived CD4+ T cells, which harbor defective copies of the HIV genome, and accounts for within-host genetic drift. The between-host model describes the transmission of HIV strains and their evolution in a population of susceptible and infected individuals. The study estimates the effect of the latent reservoir on HIV evolutionary dynamics and the role of between-host transmission dynamics in driving viral evolution. The model predicts that the presence of a latent reservoir can result in severe delays in viral evolutionary dynamics and can have a major impact on the virulence of the virus. The study also highlights the importance of considering the effects of between-host transmission dynamics on the evolution of HIV.
This study investigates the effects of virus-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells on the immune response to viruses that infect and replicate within cardiac myocytes. The authors use transgenic mice that express TCRs specific for either the LCMV GP33-41 or CVB3 GP61-80 epitopes. The authors observed that LCMV-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells differentiated into effector cells that proliferated and produced cytokines in response to LCMV, but did not respond to CVB3. In contrast, CVB3-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells differentiated into effector cells that proliferated and produced cytokines in response to CVB3, but did not respond to LCMV. The authors conclude that virus-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells differentiate into effector cells that can respond to viruses that encode the cognate epitope, but not to viruses that encode different epitopes. This study provides important insights into the specificity of T cell responses to different viruses.
This study compared the effects of methylprednisolone (MP) and prednisolone, two types of corticosteroids, on individuals with leprosy reactions and nerve damage. The study was conducted in Nepal and included 24 individuals with leprosy reactions and nerve damage. The individuals were randomly assigned to receive either MP or prednisolone. Both drugs were given in high doses for 16 weeks. The study found that there were no significant differences in the number or severity of adverse events between the two groups. However, the study also found that there were significant differences in the sensory function of the individuals between the two groups. Individuals who received MP had significantly better sensory function at the end of the 16-week treatment period compared to individuals who received prednisolone. The study suggests that MP may be a more effective treatment option for individuals with leprosy reactions and nerve damage. However, further research is needed to confirm these findings.
In this study, we have explored the effects of HIV-1 infection on the suppressive capacity of Treg cells on virus-specific CD8+ T cells. We found that while Treg suppressive capacity on non-HIV-specific CD8+ T cells was preserved, the suppressive capacity on HIV-specific CD8+ T cells was impaired in HIV-1 infected individuals, but not in ART-treated HIV-1 infected individuals. This impairment was more pronounced on HIV Gag-specific CD8+ T cells than on CEF-specific CD8+ T cells. We also observed a subset-specific effect of Treg on CD8+ T cells, with CCR7+CD45RA+ (naive) CD8+ T cells being more affected than CCR7+CD45RA- (central memory) CD8+ T cells. Our findings suggest that the loss of suppressive capacity of Treg on virus-specific CD8+ T cells is an important contributor to the persistent immune activation and immune senescence seen in HIV-1 infected individuals.
The current study describes the cloning of a GST gene from the cDNA library of the infective larval stage of the filarial parasite Wuchereria bancrofti, which is the causative agent of lymphatic filariasis. The GST enzyme activity of the recombinant protein was determined, and its immunological properties were studied using sera from different groups of individuals. The results suggest that anti-WbGST antibodies play a critical role in the immunity against lymphatic filariasis, and the GST protein is a potential vaccine candidate against this infection.
This study aimed to investigate whether off-target mutations could be induced by CRISPR-Cas9 technology in vivo. The researchers used mouse embryos and gRNA targeting the Tyrosinase (Tyr) gene. They observed that Cas9-induced mutations were not affected by the type of Cas9 mRNA used, the Cas9 protein concentration or the location of the gRNA target sequence within the Tyr gene. They also did not find any evidence of off-target effects induced by Cas9 on the mouse genome. The study suggests that CRISPR-Cas9 technology is safe and effective for inducing targeted mutations in mouse embryos.
The protein HRB1 (HRB1) is a negative regulator of stomatal opening in response to light. HRB1 is a small nuclear protein, and its overexpression results in decreased stomatal aperture. HRB1 interacts with PP7 (PP7), another small nuclear protein. The interaction between HRB1 and PP7 promotes the dephosphorylation of HRB1 by PP7. The dephosphorylation of HRB1 results in decreased stomatal aperture. The light-induced dephosphorylation of HRB1 is required for the light-induced decrease in stomatal aperture. The dephosphorylation of HRB1 is regulated by the phosphorylase/phosphatase pair COP1/COP2.
We previously showed that the Mediator subunit MDT-15 is required for efficient expression of energy metabolism genes in response to food intake. In this study, we show that MDT-15 is also required for efficient expression of detoxification genes in response to toxins such as heavy metals and hydrophobic compounds. We show that MDT-15 is a specificity factor that determines the type of response, either energy metabolism or detoxification. We also show that MDT-15 forms a complex with the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-49 that is required for efficient expression of detoxification genes. Our findings suggest that MDT-15 is an important component of a regulatory network that governs screening and routing of the ingested material to ensure its appropriate utilization, metabolism, and elimination.
In this paper, we investigate the relationship between the mean firing rate, the mean place field size, the number of place cells, and the ability of the hippocampus to form topological maps. We use the concept of simplicial complex to analyze the spike trains of place cells in the hippocampus and find that the number of k-simplices (k-cycles) in the complex is a topological invariant, meaning that it is not affected by continuous deformations of the underlying space. We then analyze the relationship between the number of k-simplices and the k-th homology group, which characterizes the number of k-dimensional holes in the space. We find that there is a linear relationship between the number of k-simplices and the k-th homology group, and this relationship is independent of the mean firing rate, the mean place field size, and the number of place cells. This finding suggests that these parameters do not affect the ability of the hippocampus to form topological maps.
The study by Moorhead et al. provides a comprehensive analysis of the host factors involved in the production of infectious hepatitis C virus (HCV). The authors used a reverse genetic approach to identify host factors that are important for infectious virus production. By infecting cells with mutant viruses that lack specific genes and identifying which mutants are unable to produce infectious virus, the authors were able to identify host factors that are essential for virus production. The study found that many host factors involved in membrane trafficking and cell signaling are important for infectious virus production. The authors also provide evidence that some of these factors are important for the production of specific HCV viral particles. The study provides a valuable resource for researchers studying HCV and may lead to the identification of new targets for antiviral therapy.
The work describes the identification of a novel tumor suppressor role for the Grb10 gene in neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by the formation of benign and malignant tumors. The authors identify Grb10 as a key negative regulator of the Ras-MAPK pathway and show that its loss of function promotes cell proliferation in mouse and human cell lines. They also show that Grb10 loss in Nf1-deficient mouse models results in increased tumorigenesis. Furthermore, they show that Grb10 loss of function is associated with increased activation of the Ras-MAPK pathway. Overall, the work provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying tumorigenesis in NF1 and suggests that Grb10 may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of NF1-related tumors.
In this paper, the authors investigated the neural mechanisms underlying the skin conductance responses (SCR) in fear conditioning. They proposed a novel Bayesian learning model (BLM) for the analysis of SCR responses, which takes into account both the uncertainty of the environment and the latency of the neural response. The BLM was compared to other reinforcement learning models, including the Rescorla-Wagner (RW) model and the hybrid RW/Pearce-Hall (HM) model. The results showed that the BLM provided a better fit to the SCR data than the other models, and that it was more robust to changes in the environment. The authors also presented a detailed analysis of the observation functions used in each model, and showed that the choice of observation function could have a significant impact on the model's fit to the data. Overall, this paper provides a valuable contribution to the field of fear conditioning, by introducing a novel and more accurate model for the analysis of SCR responses.
The study described in this report characterizes the protein kinase PomA and its role in septation and conidiation in the fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The authors show that PomA is a kinase that regulates the localization of the septation initiation protein MobA and that the loss of PomA function suppresses the defects in septation and conidiation caused by mutations in the sepH and sidB genes, which encode other components of the SIN1/SIN3/MGC1 complex involved in septation initiation. The authors also provide evidence that PomA functions through the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, which is known to be involved in septation and conidiation in A. nidulans. Overall, the study suggests that PomA is a key regulator of septation and conidiation in A. nidulans and that it functions through the MAPK signaling pathway.
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis (TL) is a parasitic disease that affects the skin and mucous membranes. The disease is caused by the Leishmania parasite, which is transmitted by the bite of infected sandflies. There are different species of Leishmania that can cause TL, and some of these species have been found to be associated with the presence of a virus called Leishmania RNA virus 1 (LRV1). The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of LRV1 in patients with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis in the state of Rondonia, Brazil. The study found that LRV1 was present in all species of Leishmania identified in the samples. The study also found that patients with mucosal leishmaniasis had a higher frequency of LRV1 than patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis. The study concluded that LRV1 may play a role in the development of mucosal leishmaniasis.
In the present study, the authors demonstrate that IFN-I is protective against invasive pneumococcal disease. They show that IFN-I is produced by human lung cells in response to pneumococcal infection and that it is important for limiting bacterial growth and invasion into the lungs. The authors also show that IFN-I can protect against invasive pneumococcal disease in vivo in a mouse model of infection. Finally, they demonstrate that IFN-I can enhance the protective effects of the pneumococcal vaccine. Overall, these findings provide important insights into the role of IFN-I in host defense against pneumococcal infection.
The study presented in this paper proposes a novel model of a biologically plausible neural network that uses spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) to learn from sensory inputs. The model is composed of three feedforward layers of neurons, where each neuron in the hidden layer receives synaptic inputs from all neurons in the input layer and passes them through a non-linear activation function before sending them to all neurons in the output layer. The model uses a combination of supervised and unsupervised learning to achieve the task of pattern recognition. The supervised learning is achieved by using a rewarded STDP paradigm between the output layer and the environment, where a positive reward is given when the output layer produces a correct prediction, and a negative reward is given when the output layer produces an incorrect prediction. The unsupervised learning is achieved by using a non-rewarded STDP paradigm between the hidden layer and the output layer, where no reward is given regardless of the correctness of the prediction. The model was tested on a set of binary classification tasks, where the goal was to classify a set of inputs into two categories. The results of the tests showed that the model was able to achieve high levels of accuracy in all tasks, with an average accuracy of 80%.
The study investigates the role of ELF5, a key regulator of mammary epithelial cell differentiation, in the initiation and progression of breast cancer. The authors use inducible mouse models to study the effects of ELF5 expression levels on tumor initiation and progression. They found that elevated ELF5 expression leads to increased tumor initiation but reduced tumor growth, suggesting a role for ELF5 in controlling tumor progression. They also studied ELF5 expression levels in human breast cancer and found a correlation between increased ELF5 expression and better patient outcomes. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of ELF5 in breast cancer.
The interplay between DNA looping and gene expression has been a topic of intense research in recent years, with a particular focus on the role of enhancers and promoters in regulating gene expression. In this study, we develop a mathematical model to examine the effects of DNA looping on gene expression, taking into account the spatial organization of enhancers and promoters. We show that the mean expression level and the noise level of genes are influenced by different factors, such as the connection pattern of enhancer-promoter loops, the length of the enhancer-promoter loop, and the communication between enhancer and promoter loops. These factors can be modulated by different mechanisms of DNA looping, such as direct looping and facilitated tracking. We find that facilitated tracking is a more effective way to control gene expression than direct looping, especially when the length of the enhancer-promoter loop is moderate. Our findings provide a framework for understanding the role of DNA looping in gene regulation and can guide future experimental studies to investigate the mechanisms of enhancer-promoter communication.
Translation repression by artificial riboregulators is an important application of synthetic biology. These riboregulators are designed to interfere with translation initiation of their target mRNA. However, the repression efficiency of riboregulators is not always consistent, making it difficult to build reliable genetic circuits. In this study, we use a novel experimental design to explore the factors that influence the repression efficiency of riboregulators. By designing a library of riboregulators and testing them in vivo, we found that the repression efficiency depends on several factors such as the formation energy of the riboregulator-target complex, the activation energy of the riboregulator-target complex, the coverage of the RBS, the paired termini (PT) and the availability of the UTR. We used a statistical design of experiments (DoE) approach to study these factors in detail and found that the formation energy of the riboregulator-target complex is the most influential factor. We also used a partial least squares (PLS) regression model to quantify the contribution of each factor to the repression efficiency. This model successfully predicted the repression efficiency of new riboregulators designed de novo. Our results provide insights into the design principles of translation repressing riboregulators, which can be used to build more efficient genetic circuits.
Neurons in the brain communicate with each other via electrical signals known as neural activity. One of the important features of neural activity is its rhythmic pattern. Neural oscillations can be observed across a wide range of frequencies and are thought to play a crucial role in coordinating brain processes. A recent study has identified a new type of neural oscillation that occurs on a time scale of minutes and plays a role in the coordination of brain processes. This oscillation is called coherence potential. It is a localized pattern of activity that persists over longer periods of time and is thought to be a manifestation of a specific type of functional organization in the brain. Coherence potentials are formed when groups of neurons show a high degree of synchrony in their activity. This synchrony can occur on a wide range of time scales, from milliseconds to minutes. The study suggests that coherence potentials are a fundamental property of neural networks and play a crucial role in the coordination of brain processes.
The paper describes a genetic screen of fission yeast essential genes for those with deletion mutants that display interphase nuclear size defects. The screen identified 25 potential nuclear size mutants, including eight with low N/C ratios. These mutants were enriched for genes encoding products with roles in RNA processing, and gene expression more generally. The role of the LINC complex and the Nem1-Spo7 phosphatase complex in nuclear size control was implicated, as were perturbations of mRNA synthesis or mRNA processing. In S. pombe, altering gene expression or mRNA processing will influence the number of ribosomes which could be related to the monitoring of cell size and thus alter the N/C ratio. The identified mutations could be used to understand the cellular mechanisms of nuclear size control and for potential therapeutic applications.
This paper presents a theoretical framework for predicting the effects of amplitude and phase of tremor stimulation on tremor response in patients with Parkinson's disease undergoing deep brain stimulation. The framework consists of two parts, the first of which is a linear model that predicts the amplitude response curve (ARC) of the system, given the amplitude and phase of the stimulation applied. The second part is a nonlinear model that predicts the phase response curve (PRC) of the system, given the amplitude and phase of the stimulation applied. The two models are then combined into a single model that can predict both the ARC and the PRC, and hence the overall response of the system to stimulation. The model is validated against experimental data from a study of deep brain stimulation in patients with Parkinson's disease, in which the effects of amplitude and phase of stimulation on tremor response were measured. The results of the model are compared to the experimental data, and the model is found to accurately predict the overall response of the system to stimulation.
We developed a simple and inexpensive molecular method based on loop-mediated amplification protocol (LAMP) for the rapid detection of Schistosoma mansoni DNA in infected Biomphalaria glabrata snails, using only a heat-based method for DNA extraction. Our results show that LAMP is more sensitive and specific than PCR for detecting S. mansoni DNA in snails. We used LAMP to detect S. mansoni DNA in snails before cercarial shedding, in snails with low numbers of miracidia infections, and in pooled samples of snails with confirmed cercarial shedding. Our LAMP assay, named Biompha-LAMP, was able to detect S. mansoni DNA in all infected snails tested and did not produce any false positives when tested with DNA from other species. Biompha-LAMP is a rapid, specific, and sensitive method that could be useful for large-scale surveillance of schistosomiasis transmission in endemic areas.
This article provides an analysis of the costs of dengue control activities and hospitalization in Colombo, Sri Lanka during the 2012 dengue epidemic. The authors estimated the costs of personnel, consumables, maintenance, and capital for dengue control activities, and the costs of hospitalization, including personnel, utilities, medical supplies, and equipment. They also estimated the average cost per dengue case treated in a ward and in an ICU. The total cost of dengue control activities in Colombo district during the 2012 dengue epidemic was estimated at US$3.45 million, equivalent to a per capita cost of US$0.42. The total cost of hospitalization for dengue patients in Colombo district during the 2012 dengue epidemic was estimated at US$2.5 million, equivalent to a per capita cost of US$0.25. These estimates can be used to inform future policy decisions related to dengue control and resource allocation.
The evolutionary history of Y chromosomes in Europe has been a topic of intense debate. A new study of haplogroup R1b1b2, which comprises up to 85% of European Y chromosomes, suggests that this lineage was carried from the Near East into Europe via Anatolia during the Neolithic period. This is supported by evidence for the spread of this lineage into western Europe during the Neolithic, as well as correlations between haplogroup frequency and longitude. The study also highlights the contrasting pattern seen in the spread of mitochondrial DNA in Europe, which suggests a role for males in the transition from Paleolithic to Neolithic societies.
We analyzed the relationship between movement variability and learning rate during motor skill acquisition in four experiments using a simple probabilistic model. We found that variability and learning rate were not correlated in our experiments. This finding contradicts previous theories suggesting that variability in motor skill acquisition improves learning. Instead, our findings support the idea that consistent motor practice is the most effective way to improve skill acquisition.
In this study, we show that the RelA–TAZ1 interaction is critical for the negative feedback loop of the NF-κB pathway. We show that RelA associates with CBP/p300 via an extensive, hydrophobic interface. We provide structural and biochemical evidence that the RelA–TAZ1 interaction is critical for RelA:CBP/p300 interaction. We show that the negative feedback loop of the NF-κB pathway is controlled by RelA:CBP/p300 interaction and that this interaction is critical for RelA-dependent gene expression. We provide evidence that RelA:CBP/p300 interaction regulates the localization of CBP/p300 in the nucleus and thus controls the transcription of RelA target genes. We show that RelA:CBP/p300 interaction is required for RelA-dependent target-gene transcription, suggesting that it is a critical factor in the regulation of the NF-κB pathway. We propose a model for the role of RelA:CBP/p300 interaction in the regulation of the NF-κB pathway, which is supported by experimental evidence and is relevant to the understanding of the pathophysiology of inflammatory diseases.
We propose a new method to analyze gene expression time-courses in longitudinal studies. It relies on the use of linear mixed models, accounting for unbalanced data, to estimate time-course patterns inside predefined gene sets. The method was applied to two datasets, where it was able to identify a significant change in gene expression over time for additional gene sets, and to compare the response to several vaccines. The method was shown to have good statistical performance in a simulation study. The R package TcGSA, which implements this method, is available for the community.
The current global map of Plasmodium vivax endemicity provides a comprehensive overview of the distribution and intensity of the parasite across the globe. In Asia, most areas are endemic for P. vivax, with high endemicity levels observed in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Malaysia. In Africa, P. vivax endemicity is lower, but still significant in Ethiopia, Madagascar, and Myanmar. In the Americas, areas of high endemicity are concentrated in Central America, particularly in Nicaragua and Costa Rica. The map also highlights areas of mixed or low endemicity, with large swaths of the population at risk of infection in Asia, Africa, and the Americas. The map can help inform and prioritize interventions aimed at controlling the spread of P. vivax malaria.
In this study, the role of ClfB in the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus skin infections was investigated. ClfB is a cell wall-anchored protein that has been previously shown to be important for S. aureus adherence to abiotic surfaces. The study used a mouse model of S. aureus skin infection and found that ClfB plays a key role in the formation of the skin abscess. ClfB expression and localization were disrupted in a mouse model of S. aureus skin infection, leading to a significant reduction in the size and severity of the skin abscess. The study also found that ClfB interacts with loricrin, a human epidermal protein, in the damaged skin tissue, leading to the formation of a robust abscess structure. Overall, the study highlights the importance of ClfB in the pathogenesis of S. aureus skin infections and suggests that ClfB could be a potential target for future therapeutic interventions.
We have developed a novel computational framework to assess the utility of prophylactic regimens using individual-level data. The framework allows for the integration of PK/PD, viral dynamics, and adherence data in a hybrid stochastic-deterministic approach. We have used this framework to assess the efficacy of dolutegravir (DTG) for prophylaxis of HIV. We predicted that oral 50mg once daily DTG is non-inferior to Truvada for perfect adherence and that it is effective at preventing HIV infection in individuals with poor adherence, even when taken post-exposure. We have also predicted that concentrations of DTG above EC90 = 722nM can prevent > 90% of infections after sexual exposure. Our framework can be used to predict the efficacy of other prophylactic drugs in development, and to guide the development of long-acting formulations.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) induces the autophagic response in infected cells by a rapid mechanism that includes the accumulation of autophagosomes, which mature inefficiently at the early time points of infection. This maturation defect is due to the induction of Rubicon, which suppresses the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes. The induction of Rubicon by HCV was dependent on the NS4B protein of HCV, which also enhances the accumulation of autophagosomes . As the HCV RNA replicates on autophagosomes, this could explain why HCV replication is enhanced by Rubicon . However, the later stage of infection is characterized by a more efficient maturation of autophagosomes, which is likely due to the induction of UVRAG, which overcomes the suppressive effect of Rubicon and facilitates the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes . The expression of NS4B in HCV-infected cells can be sufficient to induce Rubicon expression and inhibit the maturation of autophagosomes .
In this study, we characterized the functions of a newly discovered protein, CCNYL1, in spermatogenesis. CCNYL1 is an essential protein for the completion of spermatogenesis and male fertility. It is also involved in the phosphorylation of CDK16, which is essential for spermatogenesis. The depletion of CCNYL1 leads to severe defects in spermatogenesis, including a condensed annulus, an unusual annulus to tail connection, and a missing head. The depletion of CCNYL1 also leads to the formation of abnormal mitochondria with mis-localized mitochondrial membrane components, which causes mitochondrial dysfunction. The phosphorylation of CDK16 is essential for mitochondrial function and the completion of spermatogenesis. These results provide a novel insight into the molecular mechanisms of spermatogenesis.
E. coli outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) are released by bacteria as natural nanoparticles and are found in various biological fluids, including the human intestine. OMVs carry a variety of bacterial proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids that are enriched in certain cell surface structures and that are involved in various physiological and pathological processes. OMVs can be isolated from various E. coli strains and have different protein and lipid profiles. OMVs from the E. coli strain O157:H7 (also called EHEC) have been implicated in various human diseases, including diarrhea, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and stroke. EHEC OMVs are highly cytotoxic to human intestinal cells, and their cytotoxicity can be correlated with the presence of the EHEC-hlyA gene, which encodes a hemolytic protein. In this article, the authors describe a simple and efficient method for the isolation and characterization of OMVs from EHEC strains. They also provide a brief overview of the various biological activities that have been attributed to EHEC OMVs and discuss their potential as therapeutic agents.
In the article titled "Dual roles for phosphorylation of Ser2 in the Cdk9-dependent pathway controlling transcriptional elongation", the authors present an interesting study on the interplay of two post-translational modifications of histone H2B, ubiquitination and phosphorylation, on transcriptional elongation. They show that the phosphorylation of Ser2 of histone H2B by Cdk9 is dependent on H2B ubiquitination, which is mediated by the Spt5-Pho15 complex. The authors also demonstrate that the phosphorylation of Ser2 regulates the recruitment of the Spt5-Pho15 complex to the chromatin template. This suggests a feedback mechanism whereby the phosphorylation of Ser2 promotes the recruitment of the Spt5-Pho15 complex, which in turn phosphorylates Ser2. This regulatory feedback mechanism may have evolved to ensure that transcriptional elongation is tightly controlled. In addition, the authors show that the phosphorylation of Ser2 is required for the recruitment of the PAF complex, which promotes the ubiquitination of H2B. This suggests that the phosphorylation of Ser2 and the ubiquitination of H2B may be part of a coordinated mechanism that regulates transcriptional elongation. Overall, the authors present an interesting study that provides new insights into the interplay of two important post-translational modifications of histone H2B, phosphorylation and ubiquitination, on transcriptional elongation.
This study provides the first direct evidence to our knowledge that yellow fever virus (YFV) was introduced to the Americas during the slave trade. We analyzed a large data set of YFV isolates from both Africa and the Americas and found that the American isolates are monophyletic, consistent with a single introduction from West Africa. The estimated time of the introduction event was approximately 470 years ago, suggesting that the viruses from the Americas have been circulating independently since the initial introduction. Our results provide strong support for the hypothesis that YFV arose in Africa and was imported into the Americas, where it has persisted ever since. The findings of this study highlight the critical role of human-mediated transportation in the dispersal of pathogens and their vectors across geographic and ecological boundaries.
This study by Hauser et al. aims to investigate the effects of influenza A virus (IAV) on the pathogenesis of Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) in infant mice. S. pneumoniae is a leading cause of pneumonia and other infections in infants, and IAV is a common co-pathogen that can increase the severity of these infections. The study used a murine model to test different hypotheses about the effects of IAV on S. pneumoniae pathogenesis. First, the study tested the hypothesis that IAV would increase the virulence of S. pneumoniae by enhancing its ability to cause pneumonia. This hypothesis was supported by the findings that IAV co-infection increased the severity of pneumonia caused by S. pneumoniae. Second, the study tested the hypothesis that IAV would increase the ability of S. pneumoniae to colonize the upper respiratory tract. This hypothesis was supported by the findings that IAV co-infection increased the ability of S. pneumoniae to colonize the upper respiratory tract. Third, the study tested the hypothesis that IAV would enhance the inflammatory response to S. pneumoniae infection. This hypothesis was supported by the findings that IAV co-infection increased the severity of the inflammatory response to S. pneumoniae infection. Overall, this study provides important insights into the effects of IAV on the pathogenesis of S. pneumoniae in infant mice and highlights the importance of considering the potential interactions between different pathogens when treating infectious diseases.
This study aims to find recombinant proteins from the salivary glands of Phlebotomus orientalis sand flies that can be used to detect exposure to their bites. SGH from P. orientalis was used as a positive control in ELISA tests. The study found that a combination of recombinant yellow-related protein (mYEL1) and antigen 5-related protein (mAG5) can be used to replace SGH in ELISA tests. The combination of mYEL1 and mAG5 showed a high correlation coefficient with anti-SGH antibodies, high positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and moderate sensitivity. These results suggest that the combination of mYEL1 and mAG5 can be used as a substitute for SGH in ELISA tests to detect exposure to P. orientalis bites in humans.
Tra proteins of the type IV secretion system encoded by SGI1 plasmid can substitute for the Tra proteins of the helper IncC plasmid, promoting the transfer of SGI1 over the helper plasmid. The Tra proteins encoded by SGI1 and IncC plasmids are structurally similar but functionally divergent. This is achieved through the use of different Tra subunits. The TraH and TraG subunits are specifically associated with the mating pore, and they are responsible for transferring DNA from the donor to the recipient cell. The TraNS and TraHGS subunits are not required for DNA transfer but are important for the stability of the mating pore. The TraNS subunit is required for the stability of the mating pore, while the TraHGS subunit is involved in the specificity and stability of the mating pore. The TraHGS subunit specifically interacts with TraGS, which is constitutively expressed from SGI1 and is not required for DNA transfer. The TraGC subunit interacts with TraH, which is not required for DNA transfer. Therefore, the TraHGS and TraGC subunits of the type IV secretion system encoded by SGI1 can substitute for the TraH and TraG subunits of the helper IncC plasmid, promoting the transfer of SGI1 over the helper plasmid. This is achieved through the specific interaction of the TraHGS subunit with TraGS, which is constitutively expressed from SGI1 and is not required for DNA transfer.
The DNA damage checkpoint is a highly regulated cellular process that prevents cells from dividing when DNA is damaged. The Cdc5 kinase is an important regulator of the checkpoint and is known to inhibit the activity of the checkpoint kinase Cdc2. However, the mechanism by which Cdc5 inhibits Cdc2 is not well understood. In this study, the authors show that Cdc5 directly phosphorylates the checkpoint protein Rad53 in vitro and in vivo. This phosphorylation is required for checkpoint inhibition, and the authors provide evidence that the phosphorylation is specific to Rad53. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of checkpoint regulation.
In this study, we have proposed a novel computational framework for simulating the electrodiffusion of ions in the extracellular space (ECS) in three-dimensional (3D) tissue models. The proposed method is based on the Krogh-Moseley-Nernst-Planck (KNP) scheme, which is a generalization of the Poisson-Nernst-Planck (PNP) scheme. The KNP scheme was first introduced in the context of electrolyte diffusion in tissues, and it accounts for the effect of the electric field on the ion diffusion. We have derived an efficient implementation of the KNP scheme using the finite element method, and we have shown that it provides accurate results for the electrodiffusion of ions in the ECS. We have also proposed a simplified version of the KNP scheme, which we refer to as the diffusion-only (DO) scheme. The DO scheme is a generalization of the PNP scheme, which ignores the effect of the electric field on the ion diffusion. We have shown that the DO scheme provides a good approximation for the electrodiffusion of ions in the ECS when the charge separation in the system is small. Finally, we have compared the results of the KNP and DO schemes to those of the PNP scheme, using both 1D and 3D simulations. Our results show that the KNP scheme provides more accurate results than the PNP scheme, particularly on long timescales. The KNP scheme also provides a more realistic description of the electrodiffusion of ions in the ECS, as it accounts for the effect of the electric field on the ion diffusion. Overall, our study demonstrates that the KNP scheme is a valuable tool for simulating the electrodiffusion of ions in the ECS, and it paves the way for future studies that aim to explore the effects of ECS ion concentrations on neurodynamics.
The proposed budget cuts to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for mosquito surveillance and research on diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus could make the United States unprepared for emerging or re-emerging diseases. To demonstrate the consequences of such a measure, if implemented, a study was conducted to evaluate the economic impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics in an economically developed urban environment. A mathematical model was used to generate hypothetical scenarios of delayed response to a dengue introduction in the city of Cairns, Queensland, Australia. The results were coupled with mosquito surveillance and case management costs to estimate the cumulative costs of each response scenario. The study found that halting mosquito surveillance could increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude in comparison to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection. The analysis also showed that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector-borne pathogens, even without consideration of the cost in human lives and well-being. The findings provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance.
Dengue virus is an emerging global health problem with significant impact on morbidity and mortality. The ability to diagnose dengue infections quickly and accurately is crucial for effective management and control of the disease. In this study, we investigated the epidemiology of acute dengue infections in semi-urban and rural western Nicaragua, a region with intense dengue transmission. We found that the overall prevalence of acute dengue infection was 51.6%, with a high rate of secondary infections (76.3%). In addition, we found that the majority of acute dengue infections occurred in adults, with a median age of 15 years, and that those with acute dengue had clinical features similar to those with other acute febrile illnesses. The results of our study highlight the need for rapid and accurate point-of-care diagnosis of acute dengue infections, particularly in settings with high transmission and in patients with symptoms that overlap with other acute febrile illnesses.
We identified a new LRR-RLK, NILR1, that is important for immune responses against cyst nematodes. NILR1 is widely distributed among monocot and dicot plants, and its knockout results in increased susceptibility to cyst nematodes. We also showed that NILR1 is required for ROS burst upon NemaWater treatment, an elicitor derived from the secretions of cyst nematodes. These findings highlight the importance of NILR1 as a component of plant immunity against cyst nematodes.
Schistosomiasis is a global parasitic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. There are currently two main drug treatments for schistosomiasis: praziquantel (PZQ) and miltefosine. In this study, we investigated the mechanism of action of miltefosine by treating adult S. mansoni worms with the drug and examining changes in the tegumental proteins exposed on the surface of the worms. We found that miltefosine-treated worms exposed several different tegumental proteins, including fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (FBPA), malate dehydrogenase (MDH), 22.6 kDa surface membrane protein (Sm22.6), and alkaline phosphatase (AP). We used anti-Sm22.6 and anti-AP antibodies to detect these proteins on the surface of 3-hour schistosomula and found that they were exposed on the surface of these early worms as well. These findings suggest that miltefosine may have a broader effect on schistosomula than previously thought and that these proteins may be potential targets for immunological intervention.
The ferritin molecule plays a central role in iron homeostasis in animals and humans. Ferritin is an iron-storage protein that binds iron to form a complex that is sequestered within the ferritin molecule. Iron sequestration is essential to prevent the formation of toxic free radicals that can damage cells. Ferritin is composed of two subunits, the heavy chain and the light chain, which form a cage structure. The heavy chain is responsible for binding iron, while the light chain provides stability to the ferritin molecule.
The Kai oscillator is a post-translational protein system that oscillates with a period of about 15 minutes. It is composed of a single hexameric protein KaiC and two dimeric proteins, KaiA and KaiB. KaiC has two domains, CI and CII, and each domain has two phosphorylation sites. Phosphorylation of these sites controls the conformational change of KaiC, which in turn affects the binding affinity of KaiA to KaiC. The conformational state of KaiC also affects the rate at which ADP is hydrolyzed in the CI domain. We have developed a model of the Kai oscillator that takes into account the differential affinity of KaiA binding to KaiC, which allows the system to exhibit oscillations. The model predicts that the phosphorylation state of the CII domain regulates the hydrolysis rate in the CI domain. We have also proposed that KaiA binding to the CI domain is responsible for the differential affinity observed in the system. We have developed a dedicated kinetic Monte Carlo algorithm to simulate the Kai system and have used it to explore the dynamics of the system, including the effects of varying the phosphorylation state of the CII domain and the binding affinity of KaiA. We have also investigated the effects of varying the ATP concentration in the buffer and the dissociation rate of KaiA from the CII domain on the dynamics of the system. Our model and simulations provide a detailed description of the interactions between the proteins in the Kai system and provide insights into the mechanisms that underlie the oscillations observed in the system.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) evades antiviral immunity by interfering with the mitochondrial antiviral signaling pathway. To accomplish this, HBV suppresses MAVS-dependent IRF3 signaling by recruiting Parkin to the mitochondria to induce LUBAC-mediated ubiquitination of MAVS. This study further explains the role of LUBAC in mediating mitochondrial antiviral signaling during HBV infection.
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease that can lead to intestinal fibrosis, a severe complication that can result in bowel obstruction. The bacterial component of the microbiota plays an important role in the etiology of CD. The bacterial component of the microbiota is composed of various microorganisms, including bacteria, archaea, and viruses. The role of the bacterial component of the microbiota in the development of CD is not fully understood, but it is believed to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of the disease. Recent studies have shown that certain bacterial species, such as Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) and Escherichia coli (E. coli), are associated with an increased risk of CD. The bacterial component of the microbiota can also interact with the host immune system, either directly or indirectly. This can lead to the activation of immune cells, which can contribute to the development of CD. In addition, the bacterial component of the microbiota can also produce metabolites that can affect the host immune system and contribute to the development of CD. One such metabolite is short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), which are produced by the fermentation of dietary fibers by the bacterial component of the microbiota. Recent studies have shown that SCFA levels are reduced in CD patients, and that SCFA supplementation can be effective in treating CD. The bacterial component of the microbiota also plays a role in the development of intestinal fibrosis, a severe complication of CD. The mechanisms by which the bacterial component of the microbiota contributes to the development of intestinal fibrosis are not fully understood, but it is believed to involve the activation of immune cells and the production of cytokines and other inflammatory mediators. The bacterial component of the microbiota can also interact with the extracellular matrix (ECM), which can contribute to the development of fibrosis. The interaction between the bacterial component of the microbiota and the ECM can lead to the production of extracellular matrix proteins, such as collagen and fibronectin, which are important components of the ECM. These proteins can contribute to the development of fibrosis by altering the mechanical properties of the intestinal wall and increasing its stiffness and rigidity.
In this study, the authors developed a mathematical model to describe the dynamics of gene expression in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). The model is based on a single-cell stochastic formulation of gene expression, which allows the authors to account for the effects of both genetic and environmental factors on gene expression. The authors tested the model against experimental data on gene expression in mESCs and found that it provided a good fit to the data. The authors also used the model to explore the dynamics of gene expression in mESCs under different conditions, such as in the presence of genetic and environmental perturbations. The results of the study provide a valuable framework for understanding the dynamics of gene expression in stem cells and may have implications for the development of new therapeutic approaches for regenerative medicine.
We utilize a genome-scale model of metabolism to explore the relationship between growth rates and proteome allocation in a diverse set of experimental environments. We find that growth rates are constrained by the allocation of proteome towards readiness for environmental shifts, rather than the intrinsic growth rate of the organism in a given environment. We also find that different proteomes may have different trade-offs between growth rate and nutrient utilization, which can result in different ecological strategies.
The study presents an analysis of rare genetic variants associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) in Chinese, Malaysian, and Indian populations. The authors performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using data from the Singapore Malay Eye Study (SiMES), the Singapore Indian Eye Study (SINDIRS), and the Singapore Chinese Eye Study (SCES). The analysis identified rare variants in the CACNA1G, RASGRF2, and ZNF518 genes, which were found to be associated with T2D. These variants were validated in independent cohorts of Chinese and Indian patients. The authors also compared the distribution of rare variants in Chinese, Malaysian, and Indian populations, and found that the Malaysian and Indian populations had a higher prevalence of rare variants compared to the Chinese population. The study suggests that rare variants may play an important role in the pathogenesis of T2D, and highlights the importance of considering the influence of ethnicity in genetic studies of complex diseases.
In this study, the authors investigate the dynamics of the spindle pole body (SPB) in the budding yeast Cryptococcus neoformans. They use a combination of microscopy and mathematical modeling to determine the role of SPB components in the timing of spindle pole body migration, nuclear migration, and nuclear division. The authors find that the timing of SPB migration and nuclear migration are regulated by the interplay between centrioles, kinetochores, and MTs. They also find that the position of the SPB relative to the budding site affects the migration of the nucleus. The authors propose a mathematical model to explain the dynamics of the SPB and its role in regulating the timing of nuclear division in C. neoformans.
RET is a tyrosine kinase receptor for glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and is involved in the pathogenesis of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) and medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). We report the identification of a RET mutation in a MTC patient with MEN2A syndrome. The patient was treated with vandetanib, which inhibits RET signaling, and the RET mutation was found to be sensitive to vandetanib in vitro. We also report the identification of a novel splice variant of RET in a patient with MEN2A, which was found to be sensitive to vandetanib in vitro. The splice variant was found to have a novel exonic splicing enhancer (ESE) motif, which is conserved across species, and is predicted to increase the expression of RET. These findings have important implications for the treatment of MEN2A and MTC.
In this study, the authors present a new method for filtering and cleaning eukaryotic pathogen genomes to improve the accuracy of metagenomics diagnosis. The method uses a combination of Kraken and Bowtie2 to mask contaminating and low-complexity sequences, and the results were tested against a set of 20 corneal samples with known eukaryotic infections. The authors found that their method significantly reduced the number of false positives, while maintaining a strong signal for the true positive infections. They also created a new database, MicrobeDB, which combines EuPathDB-clean with RefSeq prokaryotes, and found that MicrobeDB performed well in identifying true positive infections in the corneal samples. The authors conclude that their method can improve the accuracy of metagenomics diagnosis, and that MicrobeDB is a useful resource for pathogen identification.
The study aims to understand the genetic differentiation of T. brucei, which causes African sleeping sickness. T. brucei isolates were obtained from human and animal hosts in Uganda and Kenya from 1975 to 2019, and their genetic diversity was analyzed using microsatellite markers. The study found genetic differentiation among T. brucei isolates from different time periods, locations, and hosts, but not in relation to vector species. The study also found genetic differentiation in T. brucei isolates from different regions of Uganda and Kenya, even though the regions share a common vector and host. These findings suggest that African sleeping sickness is not a clonal disease and that T. brucei populations are genetically diverse.
In this study, we found that mice lacking the transcription factor TXNIP had significantly increased sensitivity to endotoxic shock, which is a major cause of sepsis. TXNIP is a negative regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome, which is a key regulator of the innate immune response to endotoxic shock. In the absence of TXNIP, the NLRP3 inflammasome is overactive and produces excessive amounts of IL-1β, leading to increased sensitivity to endotoxic shock. We also found that TXNIP negatively regulates the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome through the inhibition of NF-κB signaling. Our findings suggest that TXNIP plays an important role in regulating the innate immune response to endotoxic shock and that TXNIP deficiency increases the risk of sepsis.
This article presents a study of ZTF-8, a protein required for proper DNA damage response in the germ cells of Caenorhabditis elegans. The authors show that ZTF-8 is important for both mitotic and meiotic functions, and that it interacts with the 9-1-1 complex. They also show that ZTF-8 is required for proper recruitment of the 9-1-1 complex to sites of DNA damage, and for proper activation of DNA damage checkpoint signaling in meiotic cells. The study provides important insights into the role of the 9-1-1 complex in DNA damage response, and into the functions of ZTF-8 in germ cells.
We have found that Olig2 represses Hes5 expression in the pMN domain of the spinal cord. This repression is required for the proper specification of MN fate. We used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing to integrate a T2A-3xNLS-FLAG-mKate2 cassette at the 3′ end of the Olig2 open reading frame to visualize Olig2+ cells in real time. We found that Olig2+ cells in the pMN domain expressed the MN-specific transcription factor Isl1/2. Our study shows that Hes5 expression is repressed by Olig2 in the pMN domain in a dynamic manner, which is required for MN specification. We have also identified an E-box within the Hes5 (e1) promoter that is bound by Olig2, which we found to be required for Olig2-mediated repression of Hes5 expression. We have further shown that Hes5 expression is regulated by Olig2-mediated transcriptional repression, which is required for MN specification. Overall, our study provides important insights into the role of Hes5 in MN specification and highlights the importance of transcriptional regulation in this process.
We describe the induction of effector CD8+ cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses against seasonal H1N1 influenza viruses in rhesus macaques. We show that after macaques were infected with the seasonal virus, a subsequent H1N1pdm virus challenge induced strong T cell responses against the conserved epitopes of the HA protein shared by the two viruses. This T cell response was dependent on the presence of the conserved epitopes in both viruses, and was also enhanced by the presence of cross-reactive antibodies induced by the first viral infection. We also show that the T cell responses induced by this dual infection strategy were effective in protecting against severe disease and mortality in a subsequent H1N1pdm virus challenge. These findings suggest that vaccines that induce strong T cell responses against conserved epitopes of influenza viruses may be effective in protecting against future pandemic viruses.
Q fever is a zoonosis caused by the bacterium Coxiella burnetii. It is difficult to diagnose and the disease can be severe. This study developed a new method called loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) to detect C. burnetii. The method is simple and fast and does not require expensive equipment. It was tested on blood samples from patients and animals and showed good sensitivity and specificity.
This study investigates a newly identified pattern of regulatory epigenetic mutations in cancer, which may be involved in the reactivation of silenced genes in cancer cells. The researchers found that enhancers, which are regions of the genome involved in regulating gene expression, are prone to hypomethylation in leukemia cells, whereas promoters are prone to hypermethylation in leukemia cells. They also found that enhancers that are present at the beginning of the hematopoietic cell lineage are more prone to hypomethylation than enhancers that are present later in development. These results suggest that hypomethylation of enhancers may play a role in the reactivation of silenced genes in cancer cells. The researchers also found that enhancers that are present at the beginning of the hematopoietic cell lineage are associated with the expression of genes involved in hematopoiesis and leukemia. This suggests that these enhancers may be important for the development and maintenance of the hematopoietic system.
Subdivision into smaller populations can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness plateaus and valleys. We have shown that, in the best-case scenario, the average crossing time of the whole metapopulation is determined by that of the champion island, which crosses the fitness plateau or valley fastest. We have derived an interval of migration rates for which this best-case scenario occurs and for which the crossing time of the champion island is dominated by the crossing time of the sequentially fixed deme. Our results show that, in the optimal regime, subdivision can lead to significant speedups for a large class of fitness landscapes, but that these speedups become more limited as the degree of subdivision increases.
The study describes a comprehensive analysis of the DENV infection process in the midgut of the Ae. aegypti mosquito. By profiling the metabolites of the mosquito midgut, the study identifies the metabolic changes that occur during DENV infection. The results reveal that the SPs play a crucial role in the infection process and may represent potential targets for future control strategies.
This article describes a new parsimonious rabbit AP model that includes a simplified INa current and a phenomenological repolarization current. The model was developed by calibrating it to experimental data, including dynamic I-V curves during propagation and in single cells. The model reproduces important physiological features, including spiral wave breakup and alternans. The authors argue that their model is useful for understanding the interaction of depolarization and repolarization processes and the relationship between AP shape and APD.
DNA excision is a process that is required for certain biological functions, such as gene expression and DNA repair. To excise a DNA sequence, a specialized group of proteins must be recruited and coordinate their actions to make the excision occur. The process of DNA excision has been extensively studied in different organisms, and recent work in the single-celled organism Paramecium tetraurelia has revealed important details about the proteins that are involved in the process. Specifically, it has been shown that the proteins LIG4 and XRCC4 are required for the efficient excision of DNA in Paramecium. These proteins are involved in the process of DNA repair, and it is possible that they are also involved in the excision process. Further research is needed to fully understand the roles of these proteins in DNA excision.
Sudden death has long been believed to be the main cause of death in patients with Chagas heart disease, which is a type of heart disease caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma cruzi. However, this belief was based on studies conducted before the introduction of drugs that changed the natural history of heart failure. In this study, the authors used data from the REMADHE trial to compare the mode of death between Chagas heart disease and non-Chagas cardiomyopathy. They found that progressive heart failure was the most important mode of death in patients with severe Chagas heart disease. These findings challenge the current understanding of Chagas heart disease and may have implications in the selection of treatment choices.
We characterize a novel signaling pathway that mediates plant defense against geminiviruses. The pathway involves the NIK1 kinase, which is activated in response to virus infection. Activated NIK1 phosphorylates the ribosomal protein rpL10A, triggering its relocation to the nucleus. In the nucleus, rpL10A functions as a defense mechanism against geminiviruses, interfering with viral replication and movement. We show that overexpression of NIK1 in tomato enhances resistance to geminiviruses, suggesting that this pathway may be exploited to develop new strategies for plant protection against viral pathogens.
The present study evaluated the role of P . brasiliensis alternative oxidase (PbAOX) during the pathogen-host interaction and its influence on virulence in a mouse model of infection. We used reverse genetics to generate a stable knock-down of the PbAOX gene in P . brasiliensis yeast cells and evaluated its survival in host alveolar macrophages and its ability to establish a chronic infection in mice. We show that reduced expression of PbAOX leads to increased susceptibility of P . brasiliensis to oxidative stress generated by alveolar macrophages and exogenous hydrogen peroxide. We also demonstrate that PbAOX plays a role in fungal survival in macrophages and establishment of chronic infection in mice. Taken together, these results support the relevance of PbAOX in the virulence of P . brasiliensis.
The present study proposes a model of how contextual memories are stored and accessed in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, based on the idea that spatial context is represented in a discrete attractor network and that discrete attractor dynamics are a necessary component for encoding and retrieving contextual information. The model is tested using experimental data from rate remapping and orthogonal place field tasks and simulations of the proposed model show that rate remapping can be explained in terms of discrete attractor dynamics. The model also predicts that the spatial component of the synaptic weights of the CA3 place cells affects the dynamics of rate remapping, and that the spatial selectivity of place cells is dependent on the activity of the recurrent collateral connections.
The present study describes the metabolic changes in the protozoan parasite E. histolytica upon exposure to oxidative stress. Using capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (CE-MS), we measured the levels of intracellular metabolites in the presence and absence of the oxidative stress-generating agents paraquat (PQ) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). PQ and H2O2 caused accumulation of various glycolytic intermediates, including fructose 1-phosphate, ribose 5-phosphate, 3-phosphoglycerate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. While the levels of ethanol and acetate were decreased, the levels of glycerol and chitin were significantly increased. Furthermore, we found that the activities of several glycolytic enzymes, including glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), phosphofructokinase (PFK), and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK), were significantly inhibited upon oxidative stress. These changes suggest that the metabolic pathway of glycolysis in E. histolytica was re-routed to produce glycerol and chitin under oxidative stress. The increased levels of glycerol and chitin upon oxidative stress may serve as a defense mechanism against the oxidative damage generated by free radicals.
Using a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation, gene expression analysis, and protein-protein interaction studies, we show that the transcriptional activator IKAROS is a component of a novel multifunctional complex that contains chromatin remodeling and transcription elongation activities. IKAROS is required for productive transcription elongation of target genes, including c-Kit and Flt3, during hematopoiesis. The formation of this complex is regulated by IKAROS expression levels. Our results demonstrate that IKAROS is a key regulator of hematopoietic gene expression and provides a new perspective on the role of chromatin-associated activities in the control of transcription.
Rabies is a rare but often fatal disease caused by infection with the rabies virus. The rabies virus is mainly carried by bats and dogs, but has been known to affect other animals, including humans. In Trinidad and Tobago, rabies has been known to exist in bats for over 80 years, but has only been reported in dogs and livestock on a few occasions. In this study, we analyzed the molecular sequence of rabies virus samples from animals in Trinidad and Tobago to better understand its origins and evolution. We found that the Trinidadian rabies virus sequences are most closely related to bat-associated rabies virus sequences from Brazil and Uruguay, suggesting that these viruses were most likely introduced into Trinidad and Tobago from the South American mainland. We also found evidence of multiple independent introductions of rabies virus into Trinidad and Tobago over several decades, with some viruses persisting on the island for several years before being sampled. Our results provide important insights into the origins and evolution of rabies in Trinidad and Tobago, which can be used to inform disease surveillance and control efforts.
We present a Boolean network model for cortical arealisation, which is a process by which the nervous system develops a map of different regions, each responsible for processing a particular set of sensory inputs or motor outputs. We model the interactions between five genes and five proteins that are known to be involved in arealisation. We use a 2-compartment, 2-level model, where each compartment represents a different spatial region of the developing brain, and each level represents a different time point during development. We use a stochastic approach, where each node in the network can be either active or inactive at any given time point, and the state of each node is determined by the states of its input nodes according to logical rules. We use a spatial dimension in our model by considering two compartments, one anterior and one posterior, and assume that there is no signalling between the compartments. We find that many networks can produce the desired steady states, but that some networks do so more reliably than others. We also find that some networks do not produce the desired steady states at all. We define a performance index to quantify the reliability of a network in producing the desired steady states, and find that some networks are more reliable than others. We use our model to predict the effects of removing different interactions from the regulatory network, and find that some interactions are essential for reliable arealisation, while others can be removed without affecting the final outcome. We conclude that our Boolean network model provides a useful starting point for understanding the complex regulatory process of cortical arealisation, and that further experimental and theoretical work is needed to fully understand this important aspect of brain development.
The article provides an analysis of chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) sequencing data from mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) to identify the localization of the uH2A mark. The authors first generated tag density plots for uH2A across the mouse genome and identified peaks of H2A at promoters of actively transcribed genes. They then compared the distribution of uH2A peaks to the distribution of other epigenetic marks and found that uH2A peaks coincide with promoters marked by H3K27me3. The authors then used Bmi1 knockout to confirm that uH2A is enriched at H3K27me3-marked promoters. They then performed microarray analysis of MEFs and found that genes marked by promoter uH2A are upregulated in Bmi1 knockout cells. The authors finally used genome-wide association studies to identify genes with promoters enriched with both uH2A and H3K27me3. Overall, this study provides new insights into the genome-wide distribution and function of uH2A.
The study presented here examines the role of mPINC1, a gene that has been identified as a potential regulator of mammary gland development. The authors find that mPINC1 is expressed in both luminal and luminal progenitor cells, and that its expression increases during the transition from luminal progenitor to alveolar progenitor cells. Additionally, the authors find that mPINC1 can interact with the chromatin remodeling factor RbAp46, which is known to play a role in luminal cell differentiation. Together, these findings suggest that mPINC1 may be involved in regulating the differentiation of mammary gland cells. The authors also investigate the potential role of mPINC1 in breast cancer, finding that its expression is increased in tumors compared to normal tissue. These results suggest that mPINC1 may be a potential target for breast cancer treatment. Overall, the study provides new insights into the role of mPINC1 in mammary gland development and breast cancer.
The cellular protein Daxx has been shown to inhibit HIV-1 infection and replication. We demonstrate that Daxx-mediated inhibition of HIV-1 infection requires its translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where it interacts with reverse-transcribed viral DNA. Furthermore, we show that Daxx inhibits reverse transcription by interacting with the viral reverse transcriptase complex, in a manner that requires its SUMOylation.
We describe Matt, a new structure alignment algorithm that uses dynamic programming and geometric knowledge to improve upon existing methods. Matt is designed to handle longer and more distantly related protein structures, allowing it to align both superfamilies and twilight zone structures. We provide extensive empirical evidence that Matt is more accurate and faster than existing methods, and discuss the algorithm's limitations and how they could be addressed in future work.
This article describes a mathematical model of mitotic cell cycle exit, in which mitotic cell cycle exit is described as the result of the competition between CDK-activating kinases and CDK-inhibiting phosphatases. The model is based on the observation that inhibition of either the activating kinases or the inhibiting phosphatases results in mitotic cell cycle arrest at either metaphase or anaphase. The model also incorporates feedback mechanisms, where the activity of the inhibiting phosphatases is increased when mitotic kinase activity is high and decreased when mitotic kinase activity is low. The model predicts the effects of various perturbations to the mitotic cell cycle, including the effects of phosphatase inhibitors and kinase inhibitors. The authors also describe a mathematical model of mitotic exit in yeast, which is based on a similar competition between activating kinases and inhibiting phosphatases, but which incorporates additional regulatory mechanisms. The authors suggest that the competition between activating kinases and inhibiting phosphatases is a common mechanism for mitotic cell cycle regulation in eukaryotes.
The study described in this article presents a detailed analysis of the HIV-1 envelope (Env) sequence and structure from a patient who was infected with HIV-1 subtype C. The Env sequence was used to construct chimeric viruses with specific features, such as the addition of the 1V5 domain, changes to the V1V2 domain, or mutations in the V3V5 domain. These chimeric viruses were then used to investigate the neutralizing antibody response to HIV-1 and to identify specific epitopes that are targeted by antibodies. The study provides a comprehensive analysis of the HIV-1 envelope sequence and structure, and it contributes to our understanding of how antibodies interact with HIV-1 and how virus evolution may affect neutralizing antibody responses.
We find evidence of positive selection on genes that are expressed in the brain, as well as in genes that are not expressed in the brain, but are expressed in organs that are known to play a role in brain development. We also find evidence of negative selection on genes that are expressed in the brain and on genes that are not expressed in the brain.
We have analyzed the binding patterns of EBF1 and RBP-jκ, two master regulatory transcription factors involved in lymphocyte differentiation, in EBV-transformed B-cells. Using ChIP-seq and ChIP-reChIP assays, we identified shared and unique binding sites for these factors in different cell lines. We also analyzed the cooperativity of these factors in vivo by performing DNA affinity purification assays. Our findings indicate that EBNA2, an EBV-encoded transcription factor, can drive new combinatorial interactions of EBF1 and RBP-jκ on DNA in the context of chromatin. We propose that EBNA2 drives new transcriptional enhancer priming by facilitating combinatorial interactions of transcription factors, which in turn can regulate cell-type-specific genes important for EBV latency.
This article describes a study on the vector competence of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes for dengue virus (DENV) in the coastal plain of Mexico. The study found that mosquitoes from sites south of the Neovolcanic Axis (NVA) had lower vector competence than those from sites north of the NVA. The study also found that there were no significant barriers to gene flow between mosquito populations north and south of the NVA based on mtDNA markers. However, the study suggests that the low vector competence of mosquitoes south of the NVA may be due to environmental factors, such as the local climate, rather than genetic factors.
We show that a large excess of the DnaA protein does not affect initiation of replication in exponentially growing Escherichia coli cells. The timing of replication initiation depends on the balance between the ATP-DnaA and ADP-DnaA forms of the protein, which are regulated by the DnaA-inactivating activity of DnaA and by the DnaA-inactivating activity of the DnaA protein itself. We propose that a balance between DnaA inactivation and DnaA activity is required for proper timing of replication initiation in exponentially growing cells. This study contributes to our understanding of the regulation of replication initiation in E. coli and has implications for understanding the initiation of replication in other bacteria.
In the present study, we report the results of applying a novel statistical method called partial Granger causality (PGC) to analyse brain activity recorded from the visual cortex of a sheep during an object discrimination task. The method allows us to infer the causal relationships between multiple brain activities, even when they are influenced by external inputs and unrecorded internal inputs. We applied this method to an analysis of the LFP data recorded from the inferotemporal cortex of a sheep performing a visual discrimination task, and found that the interactions between the five channels we studied were in the theta band, specifically the high theta band (10-30 Hz). This finding is in agreement with previous research that has identified the importance of theta oscillations for visual processing. We also found that the directionality of the interaction between the five channels differed between the time domain and frequency domain analyses. These differences highlight the potential pitfalls of relying solely on one method of analysing brain activity, and the importance of applying multiple methods to obtain a more complete understanding of the underlying processes. Overall, our results suggest that the partial Granger causality method is a powerful tool for analysing complex brain activity data, and can provide valuable insights into the underlying neural mechanisms of cognitive processes.
The manuscript presents a new method, Lanc-CSV, for inferring local ancestry in individuals with admixed ancestry using genotyping array or sequencing data. The method is based on a hidden Markov model, which takes into account the genetic distance between known continent-specific variants (CSVs) observed in the individual and in reference haplotypes. The method is more accurate than existing methods for individuals with low levels of admixture and provides better performance than existing methods that require sequencing data. The method can also identify sub-continental ancestry, which is important for some populations.
The study "The ubiquity of circadian rhythms in gene expression" by Kabanov et al. reports the results of a new approach to the analysis of circadian rhythms in gene expression. The authors explain that previous studies have focused on individual genes and have often failed to detect circadian rhythms. They propose a new method based on the principle that genes with similar functions are likely to have similar expression patterns. The authors applied their method to microarray data from multiple murine tissues and report that 99% of the genes in each dataset exhibit circadian rhythms. They conclude that their approach provides a more accurate picture of the extent of circadian regulation in mammalian gene expression and suggests that circadian rhythms are a fundamental property of gene expression in many organisms.
We report the results of an analysis of recombination events in collared flycatcher (Ficedula albicollis) genomes. Our data show that recombination is biased towards chromosome ends, resulting in the formation of recombination hotspots. We found that male birds had more CO events than females. Additionally, our study suggests that recombination occurs more frequently in genes and that CO events are more likely to occur in heterochromatic regions of the genome. The patterns of recombination observed in collared flycatchers are similar to those in other species, including humans, suggesting that the recombination process is conserved across taxa. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the evolutionary mechanisms that shape genomes.
We have presented a theory for the folding of repeat-containing proteins. We consider the folding of a chain of repeating elements as a one-dimensional problem of sequential folding of single repeats. We show that the cooperative folding of such repeats is a direct consequence of the statistical properties of the system. We provide an explicit expression for the folding free energy, which is well described by a coarse-grained model of repeating units. We find a linear relationship between stability and cooperativity in folding, and show that the folding free energy of a repeat-containing protein can be decomposed into contributions from interactions between adjacent repeats and contributions from the individual repeats. We apply our theory to analyze folding experiments on natural repeat-containing proteins and find good agreement between the theory and experiments. We discuss some possible applications of our theory to understand the design principles of natural repeat-containing proteins.
We demonstrate here that CHOP, a stress-activated transcription factor, promotes hepatocellular carcinogenesis in mice. CHOP was recently identified as a mediator of pro-oncogenic effects of ER stress, and its activation has been associated with a range of human cancers. In this study, we found that CHOP is expressed in hepatocytes of human hepatocellular carcinomas but not in adjacent unaffected tissue. Consistent with this, CHOP is expressed in the foci of cellular alteration that constitute the nodules and tumors produced by DEN and T2/Onc3 treatments in mice. We found that CHOP expression is associated with increased eIF2α phosphorylation and upregulation of ribosomal gene expression, which is consistent with the known role of CHOP in promoting cell proliferation. In addition, CHOP expression is associated with increased expression of a range of genes that are involved in inflammation, fibrosis, and tumorigenesis. When we analyzed the effects of CHOP deletion on liver damage and tumorigenesis, we found that CHOP deletion leads to a marked decrease in both fibrosis and tumor size. In DEN-challenged mice, CHOP deletion also leads to a reduction in basal inflammatory gene expression. These data demonstrate that CHOP is involved in promoting hepatocellular carcinogenesis in mice and suggest that CHOP could be a therapeutic target for preventing or treating HCC in humans.
The current review provides a comprehensive overview of the treatment options for cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) caused by Leishmania aethiopica in Ethiopia. While there is no one-size-fits-all solution for the treatment of CL, several options are available. These include topical and systemic antimonials, intralesional or systemic pentamidine, cryotherapy, and intralesional ketoconazole. However, the efficacy and safety of these treatments are limited, and there is a need for new and better treatment options. The review highlights the importance of prospective clinical trials with large sample sizes, standardized outcome measures, and long-term follow-up to better evaluate the efficacy and safety of different treatment options. It also emphasizes the need for further research to identify better treatment options for CL caused by L. aethiopica in Ethiopia.
The cyanobacterial circadian clock is a complex biochemical system that is regulated by oscillatory interactions among multiple clock proteins. In this study, we used EM to investigate the composition of the KaiABC oscillator complex from S. elongatus in various phases of the oscillation cycle. We found that, under different conditions of phosphorylation, the KaiABC complex has different compositions. In particular, we identified a previously unknown KaiABC complex, which we named KaiABC-II, consisting of one KaiA monomer, one KaiB monomer, and three KaiC hexamers. We also found that the composition of the KaiABC complex can change over time, with the KaiABC-II complex being present in early and late phases of the oscillation cycle. These findings suggest that the KaiABC clock is a dynamic system that can change its composition to regulate its own operation.
Our study investigates the relationship between the activity of the brain and performance in a complex task. We developed a new method for measuring brain activity, called stochastic nonlinear dynamic activity (SNA), which captures the complex and dynamic nature of brain activity. We used SNA to analyze brain activity during a task that involved a complex series of decisions and actions. We found that brain activity was more complex and dynamic during the task than during rest. Furthermore, we found that brain activity was related to performance in the task. Specifically, we found that individuals with higher SNA during the task performed better than those with lower SNA. Our results suggest that brain activity is important for performance in complex tasks and that measuring this activity can provide valuable information about an individual's performance.
This study investigates the evolution of the mating locus in the fungal genus Trichosporonales, which includes the opportunistic human pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans and the medically important plant pathogen Valsa humicola. The authors analyzed 21 genomes from 21 different species within the Trichosporonales and found that all of them have a mating locus with two conserved regions containing genes for HD and P/R loci. The authors also found that all species within the Trichosporonales have a single HD gene per mating type and that this locus is located in the same chromosome in all species. The authors then used comparative genomics to infer the evolutionary history of the Trichosporonales and found that the split between basidiomycetes and ascomycetes occurred approximately 600 million years ago. The authors also found that the Trichosporonales diverged approximately 200 million years ago and that the Tremellales, which are the closest relatives of the Trichosporonales, diverged approximately 20 million years ago. Overall, this study provides important insights into the evolution of the mating locus in the fungal genus Trichosporonales.
We describe a mathematical model that predicts the abundance of non-domiciliated triatomine vectors of Chagas disease in rural houses based on the population dynamics of individuals present in the house at any given time. The model was calibrated using two years of field data from two villages in the absence of vector control interventions and then used to simulate the effects of various control strategies on the triatomine population. The best fit was obtained for a yearly spraying of pyrethroids during a narrow time window before the start of the seasonal infestation by adult triatomines. The model showed that the timing of insecticide spraying during the year is critical for its efficacy, but the optimal frequency of application was not found. Insect screens were found to be highly effective, but their sustainability depends on the insecticide used for impregnation. Bednets were found to have little effect on bug abundance. The model can be used to design and optimize vector control strategies for non-domiciliated triatomines.
The study explores the role of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling pathways in the development of the chicken feather pattern. The authors use a combination of live imaging, genetic analysis, and histological analysis to investigate the regulation of the feather pattern in embryonic chicken skin. They find that the BMP signaling pathway regulates the spacing between feather placodes, while the EGF signaling pathway is responsible for the alignment of feather placodes. The study also identifies the genes involved in these pathways and their regulation in embryonic chicken skin. The findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying feather pattern formation and may have implications for the development of other structures.
This study reports a systematic review of published data on the presence of filoviruses in body fluids of infected people and survivors of the 2013–2015 Ebola virus disease outbreak in West Africa. The authors searched for primary data that suggested high likelihood of actively infectious filovirus in human body fluids (viral RNA) from Marburg virus and Zaire, Sudan, Taï Forest, and Bundibugyo species of Ebola. The study included 29 studies reporting on filovirus detection in blood, and 22 studies reporting on filovirus detection in non-blood body fluids. The authors observed that blood samples are rarely positive on days 17–112 and most deaths from Ebola virus disease occur by day 16 of illness. They found that virus was detected in most breastmilk samples, but the dataset is too small to be conclusive. They observed that virus was detected in 73% of seminal fluid samples before day 113, and the latest positive result was 203 days after onset of illness. The authors concluded that filovirus was not detected in seminal fluid of six survivors at 697–707 days post-illness. They noted that virus was detected in saliva in both early and late monitoring periods, falling only modestly from 55% to 45% before and after 16 days of illness. The authors also reported that the probability of detection by RT-PCR in different body fluids was fairly similar in both periods, falling only modestly from 55% to 45% before and after 16 days of illness. The authors concluded that there is a need for further research into the infectiousness and persistence of filoviruses in body fluids, to improve risk assessment and guide public health interventions during future outbreaks.
The fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model, which is a modification of the classical leaky integrate-and-fire model, was developed to better capture the spiking dynamics observed in neurons. In this model, the membrane voltage is described by a fractional derivative, which captures the non-local dynamics and long-range correlations seen in biological systems. The fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model also reproduces the power-law statistical distributions that are commonly observed in spike times and voltages. The model was tested on different experimental data sets and compared to other models, such as the generalized leaky integrate-and-fire model. The fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model provides a more general and flexible framework for studying the spiking dynamics of neurons, as it captures both the sub-threshold and spiking regimes. It also provides a way to map the general voltage and spike time adaptation properties of neurons throughout the brain.
The genus Paracoccidioides is a complex of eight different species of fungi that cause a fungal infection called paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM). PCM is a disease that primarily affects the lungs but can also affect other organs of the body. To survive and cause disease in the host, the fungi need to be able to counteract the host's immune response and resist the damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, the authors investigated the role of different types of superoxide dismutases (SODs) in the survival and virulence of Paracoccidioides species. They found that two of the six different SODs, SOD1 and SOD3, are important for the survival and growth of the fungi in the presence of oxidative stress. They also found that SOD3 is important for the virulence of the fungi in a mouse model of infection, while SOD1 is not. These findings suggest that different types of SODs may have different roles in the pathogenesis of PCM.
The intrinsic disorder of proteins (i.e. the lack of a fixed 3D structure) has been found to correlate negatively with the tendency of these proteins to bind to chaperones. This observation has important implications for the function of intrinsically disordered proteins, which have been shown to play important roles in various cellular processes, including signaling, transcription, and protein-protein interactions. The negative correlation between disorder and chaperone binding suggests that intrinsically disordered proteins may rely on other mechanisms for folding and stability, such as interactions with other proteins. Understanding the functional relevance of intrinsic disorder is critical for developing new therapeutic strategies for various diseases, including cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, and infectious diseases.
We have identified a number of genes in Drosophila melanogaster that are likely to be regulated by the signaling pathways that control wing development. We did this by comparing the expression of genes in flies with mutations in the Dpp signaling pathway to the expression of genes in flies with mutations in the Spalt signaling pathway, which is a transcriptional cascade downstream of Dpp. We used two types of microarray experiments to identify these genes: one set compared the expression of genes in flies with Dpp and Spalt mutations at different times, and another set compared the expression of genes in flies with Dpp and Spalt mutations in different tissues. We then selected a set of genes for further analysis based on the results of these microarray experiments. We used in situ hybridization to confirm that some of the genes we selected were indeed differentially expressed in the wing discs of flies with mutations in the Dpp and Spalt signaling pathways. Our analysis revealed that the Dpp signaling pathway likely regulates the expression of many genes involved in wing development, and that the Spalt signaling pathway regulates the expression of genes involved in wing patterning and morphogenesis. Our findings suggest that the Dpp and Spalt signaling pathways may work together to control wing development, and that they may have overlapping functions in regulating gene expression.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) in the regulation of centriole duplication in Caenorhabditis elegans. They show that downregulation of PP1 activity results in increased levels of ZYG-1, which is required for centriole duplication. They also demonstrate that PP1 inhibition leads to overduplication of centrioles, which is associated with the formation of multipolar spindles and lethality. The authors further investigate the mechanism by which PP1 regulates centriole duplication and show that PP1 acts through an SCF-independent pathway. Their findings provide new insights into the regulation of centriole duplication and may have implications for understanding the etiology of human diseases associated with aberrant centriole dynamics.
We found 15 species of sand flies, including 4 species that are considered vectors of Leishmaniasis (Lutzomyia longipalpis, Lu. neivai, Lu. ayrozai and Lu. garciavallesi) and 4 different species of wild mammals (Didelphis albiventris, Sciurus, Callithrix jacchus, and Callithrix penicillata) infected with Leishmaniasis. Our results are a clear indication of the transmission cycle of Leishmaniasis in the Atlantic Forest of Campinas, which has not been previously reported in the literature. The presence of infected dogs, wild animals, and sand flies in close proximity to human residences indicates that the transmission cycle of Leishmaniasis in the Atlantic Forest of Campinas is related to human habitation. Our findings provide important information for the development of effective control strategies for Leishmaniasis in this region.
This study aimed to identify the roles of the EBV-encoded miRNA BART9 in promoting the migration, invasion, and metastasis of human nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cells. The results showed that miR-BART9 was highly expressed in NPC tissues compared with normal nasopharyngeal epithelial tissues. The study further demonstrated that miR-BART9 promoted NPC cell migration, invasion, and metastasis by downregulating E-cadherin expression.
The authors present ggsashimi, a tool that enables the visualization of alternative splicing events across multiple RNA-seq experiments. ggsashimi uses popular bioinformatics file formats, is annotation-independent, and allows the visualization of splicing events even for large genomic regions. The tool can be used to create sashimi plots for individual RNA-seq experiments and aggregated plots for groups of experiments. It can also create visualizations that show the presence of splice junctions between splice sites that are not contiguous on the genome sequence. The authors demonstrate the usefulness of the tool by comparing it with existing implementations using a set of 12 RNA-seq samples from the ENCODE project. The authors note that ggsashimi has several unique features that distinguish it from existing implementations and make it useful for large-scale projects.
We have developed a new evolutionary model of binding sites of transcription factors and implemented it in a program, EMMA, for alignment and discrimination of cis-regulatory modules in multiple species. Our evolutionary model takes into account both insertions and deletions in addition to substitutions and incorporates the binding site evolutionary model of Halpern and Bruno to account for the evolution of transcription factor binding sites. We also model the gain and loss of binding sites in a simple way and use it to infer whether a functional site is conserved or not. We have shown that EMMA can discriminate between positive and negative sequences with high accuracy, even when the two species diverged a long time ago. We also show that EMMA has a high sensitivity and specificity in aligning the orthologous sequences. Our evolutionary model also allows us to extend the alignment of the two species to multiple species. Our framework provides a way of learning the rules of binding site evolution and the binding rules of transcription factors.
Transposons and selfish genetic elements are common in the genomes of all organisms, but their function is not well understood. The piRNA pathway is a recently discovered mechanism for controlling the transposition of these elements in the germline of animals. In this paper, the authors show that the piRNA pathway has two distinct functions: first, it prevents the transposition of transposons in the germline, and second, it protects the chromosome ends, which contain repetitive transposons, from being fused together. The piRNA pathway also affects telomere length and telomeric transposon copy number.
This article is about a new species of Ebola virus that was discovered in western Uganda in 2007. The virus, named Bundibugyo ebolavirus, is genetically distinct from the four known species of Ebola virus, including the Zaire and Sudan species that have caused large outbreaks in Africa. The discovery of this new species highlights the importance of molecular diagnostics and characterization tools in identifying new pathogens and the need to be cautious when relying solely on molecular techniques for disease surveillance and biodefense programs.
The course of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by several stages, each marked by a certain level of cognitive decline. The mean duration of each stage has been estimated, but the variability of these durations remains unknown. The authors of this study analyzed the durations of different AD stages and found that the variability of the stage durations is significant. This finding has important implications for the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of AD.
In this paper, we extend our previous model of additive neurogenesis in the hippocampus to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex (EC). We show that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy compared to conventional synaptic plasticity or neuronal turnover when operating alone. We also propose a simple, biologically plausible neurogenesis rule that has evolved to balance the competing demands of neurogenesis and memory storage. This rule is consistent with the observed decrease in neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal, and allows the network to generalise on the changing statistics of the input patterns. We find that our model can successfully handle the transition from a regime where only new, unrecruited granule cells die to a regime where both new and existing granule cells die, and that this transition is dependent on the rate of neurogenesis. Our results suggest that the dynamics of adult neurogenesis are influenced by factors that are not yet fully understood.
The work described in this manuscript is about the characterization of the function of three cytosolic peroxidases in the trypanosomatid parasite Trypanosoma brucei. The authors have shown that the absence of each of these peroxidases is not sufficient to produce a phenotypically detectable growth defect or infectivity defect in the in vitro stage of the parasite, although they are dispensable for growth or infectivity of the parasite in its insect host. The authors have also shown that these enzymes are not involved in the protection of the parasite against oxidative damage caused by iron-mediated reactions. The authors have used a variety of experimental techniques to test the function of these enzymes, including in vitro growth assays, analysis of parasite-host interactions, and use of inhibitors and mutants. The authors have also used imaging techniques to visualize the location of the peroxidases within the parasite. Overall, the work provides important information about the function of these peroxidases in the parasite and may contribute to a better understanding of the mechanisms of iron-mediated damage and the role of antioxidant enzymes in protecting against it.
Pmel-1, a gene essential for the production of the pigment melanin in the skin, hair and eyes, was targeted by using the Cre-loxP recombination system. A loxP-flanked exon 4 was inserted into the coding region of the gene, allowing for the selective deletion of this exon upon Cre expression. In addition, a floxed stop codon was inserted upstream of the loxP-flanked exon, preventing unwanted translation from the exon 3. The targeted allele was generated and transmitted to the progeny. Homozygous knockout mice (Pmel-1-/-) were born viable and fertile, but displayed a complete lack of pigmentation in the skin, hair and eyes. In Pmel-1-/- mice, the pigment producing cells (melanocytes) were present, but devoid of melanin. The lack of pigmentation was associated with a reduction in the melanocyte dendritic length, but not in their number. The morphology and function of the retinal pigment epithelium and photoreceptors in the eye were also unaffected by the Pmel-1 knockout. The melanocytes derived from Pmel-1-/- mice contained normal amounts of tyrosinase, a key enzyme in melanin production, but failed to produce melanin upon tyrosinase stimulation in vitro. Furthermore, Pmel-1-/- mice did not produce pyrrole-2,3,5-tricarboxylic acid, a byproduct of the oxidation of eumelanin, suggesting that eumelanin production was absent. These results demonstrate that Pmel-1 is essential for the production of melanin in melanocytes, and that the absence of this gene does not affect the development or function of these cells.
Dengue is a common vector-borne disease that causes significant health problems, particularly in tropical and subtropical regions. The World Health Organization recommends various vector control methods, such as waste management, elimination of breeding places, and application of insecticides to control dengue vectors. However, the effectiveness of these methods has not been systematically evaluated. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to provide evidence on the effectiveness of environmental vector control methods for dengue vectors. The review included 19 studies, which were conducted in 13 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. The meta-analysis results showed that most of the environmental methods had a significant effect on reducing the immature stages of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which are responsible for dengue transmission. Specifically, the pooled difference in the dengue vector indices between the intervention and control groups showed a reduction of 7.9% for the Baseline Index and 8.83% for the Container Index. However, the meta-analysis results also showed that the effectiveness of the environmental methods varied widely depending on the specific method used, the location of the study, and the study design. Therefore, the results of this study highlight the need for further research on the effectiveness of environmental vector control methods for dengue vectors.
This study investigates the role of eukaryotic ribosome complexes in the translation of stalled mRNAs. In order to accomplish this, the authors used genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screens to identify translation factors that modulate stalled mRNA translation. The authors found that the factors identified in these screens can be divided into two categories: those that promote stalled mRNA translation and those that suppress stalled mRNA translation. The authors also found that ribosome-related factors are particularly important for stalled mRNA translation. The authors then used a combination of biochemical and genetic approaches to investigate the role of ribosome complexes in stalled mRNA translation. The authors found that 40S ribosome complexes are particularly important for stalled mRNA translation. The authors also found that mRNA that has been stalled for a long time is particularly sensitive to changes in ribosome dynamics. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of stalled mRNA translation.
The results presented in this study indicate that the activity of SOX, a viral protein involved in host shutoff during KSHV infection, requires both cytoplasmic and nuclear processes. SOX induces aberrant hyperadenylation of nuclear polyadenylated RNA, which is associated with enhanced decay of the hyperadenylated RNA. This process is facilitated by the nuclear-localized RNA helicase PABPC1. In addition, SOX induces cytoplasmic degradation of polyadenylated RNA, which is enhanced by the cytoplasmic PABPC. These results suggest that host shutoff during KSHV infection involves both nuclear and cytoplasmic processes, which are facilitated by the activity of SOX.
This study evaluated the role of IL-28R signaling in the host defense against S. aureus and P. aeruginosa. The authors found that type III IFN inhibits the IL-1R/NF-κB signaling pathway and activates PDCD4, which can have both pro- and anti-inflammatory effects on cytokine production. The results suggest that type III IFN plays a dual role in host defense against bacterial infection, depending on the specific pathogen. Further investigation into the mechanisms of PDCD4 signaling in host defense may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for bacterial infections.
This article provides a comprehensive overview of the various clinical and biological factors that are associated with mortality in African HAT patients. The study analyzed data from 781 patients who were admitted with advanced stages of the disease between 1989 and 2012. The study found that clinical status on admission, total protein concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, presence of parasites in the cerebrospinal fluid, and treatment regimen were significant predictors of mortality. The study also found that the dysfunctional state on admission was the strongest predictor of mortality. The study highlights the importance of proper clinical assessment and management in the care of HAT patients.
A novel method for tracking multiple flying insects in real-time was developed. The method is based on a 3D video analysis of the flying insects in a dark room with a low spatial resolution. The 3D video was analyzed using a graph-based approach, which resulted in the creation of a weighted adjacency matrix that contained the number of touch interactions between individual insects. The matrix was normalized, and a weighted graph was constructed from the adjacency matrix. The graph was analyzed using various network parameters to determine the number of touch interactions and the identity of the interacting insects. The method was tested on 16 flies, and the results showed that the method was accurate and reliable. The method can be used for various applications, such as tracking insects in agriculture or studying insect behavior.
In this study, we evaluated the impact of a smartphone adaptation of the World Health Organization (WHO) diarrheal disease management guidelines on improving guideline adherence in resource-limited settings. The Rehydration Calculator was associated with a significant and positive prescription change towards guideline adherence, including weight-based dosing and antibiotic class-switching. The findings demonstrate the potential of technology-enabled decision-support tools to improve the quality of care in resource-limited settings. Future studies will expand on these findings and explore the utility of smartphone decision-support tools in other resource-limited settings.
We analyzed the thermal response of a Drosophila melanogaster host and a parasitic wasp Ostrinia mrazakii using two different models: the discrete-time (DT) and the continuous-time (MTE) models. We exposed D. melanogaster larvae to nine different temperatures between 6 and 33°C and examined their lifespans, fecundity, and infection prevalence. We found that both models accurately captured the observed data, but the MTE model had a better fit to the data and captured the nonlinear relationships between host lifespan, fecundity, and infection prevalence. We also found that the MTE model was more robust than the DT model to changes in the parameter values. We concluded that the MTE model provides a better and more robust description of the thermal responses of host and parasite populations, and can be used to predict the effects of climate change on their interactions.
The study presented in this article investigates the role of a specific neural microcircuit in the visual cortex, called the somato-dendritic compartment, which is composed of three different types of neurons: SOM, VIP, and PC neurons. The authors propose a model that describes the interactions between these neurons and how they affect the output of PC neurons. The authors find that the output of PC neurons can be modulated by the SOM-VIP microcircuit, which can cause a switch in the type of visual processing performed by these neurons. The authors also find that the amplification of small control signals within the SOM-VIP microcircuit can affect the effectiveness of this switch.
This study describes a new method called Direct Association Analysis (DAA) to identify direct links between microbial taxa and disease states. The method infers direct associations using maximum entropy models and separates them from indirect associations generated by interspecies interactions. Using this method, the study identifies a small number of taxa that can accurately predict Crohn’s disease and explains extensive dysbiosis in the disease. The study also finds that many previously reported associations between microbiota and disease are indirect and arise from microbial interactions. These findings highlight the importance of accounting for microbial interactions to accurately infer direct links between microbiota and disease states.
Wolbachia is a type of bacteria that can be naturally or artificially transinfected in mosquitoes. Mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia are resistant to pathogens like dengue and Zika. There are different ways to introduce Wolbachia to mosquitoes, including stable transinfection, natural infection, and transient infection. Each method has its own benefits and drawbacks. In this study, the authors compared the blocking effect of Wolbachia on dengue and Zika viruses in transiently and stably infected Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. They found that both transient and stable infections had blocking effects, but the blocking effect was greater in stable infections. They also found that Wolbachia had a greater blocking effect on dengue than Zika. Overall, this study provides valuable information for researchers and policymakers working to control mosquito-borne diseases.
In this study, we have analyzed the subcellular localization of a group of proteins that are required for proper ciliogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans. We have found that these proteins are organized into distinct modules that are involved in different aspects of ciliogenesis. We have also shown that these modules are genetically and physically distinct from the modules involved in cilia maintenance and function. By analyzing the effects of deleting these modules and analyzing their interactions, we have identified a novel regulatory pathway that controls the transition between ciliogenesis and cilia maintenance. Our findings provide insight into the complex interplay of proteins involved in ciliogenesis and highlight the importance of identifying distinct modules within this process.
Polarity proteins play a crucial role in the development of many tissues, including the central nervous system (CNS) of mammals. In the CNS, these proteins are expressed in oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells that generate the myelin sheaths that insulate axons. Loss of polarity proteins in oligodendrocytes during development or in mature myelinating axons has been shown to cause impaired myelin formation and function. However, the exact mechanisms by which polarity proteins regulate myelin formation are not yet fully understood.
This study examines the role of a specific lysosomal enzyme, Lysosomal-Streptolysin O (LSO), in the pathogenesis of Listeria monocytogenes. The researchers found that LSO plays a role in the survival of L. monocytogenes within phagosomes of macrophages. They also found that LSO is not expressed by all strains of L. monocytogenes and that the presence or absence of LSO does not affect the ability of the bacteria to cause cell death or to survive extracellularly. The researchers conclude that LSO is a virulence factor in L. monocytogenes and that it contributes to the pathogenesis of listeriosis.
The aim of this study was to determine the role of two cytokines, IL-17A and MMP-9, in the pathogenesis of mycetoma granulomas. Mycetoma is a chronic inflammatory disease caused by fungal or bacterial agents that form granulomas around the grains. The cytokines were found to be expressed in different zones around the grains in all three causative agents. IL-17A was expressed mainly in zones I and II, and MMP-9 in zones II and III. A higher expression of IL-17A and MMP-9 was found in lesions with a longer disease duration and in larger lesions. Additionally, a positive correlation was observed between IL-17A and MMP-9 expression levels. These findings suggest that IL-17A and MMP-9 play important roles in the formation of mycetoma granulomas.
In recent years, the use of epigenetic drugs to treat cancer has become increasingly popular. However, the success of these drugs is limited by their toxicity to normal cells. One way to overcome this problem is to identify the unique features of cancer cells that distinguish them from normal cells. One such feature is the abnormal expression of oncoproteins, which are proteins that promote cancer. These proteins often contain a specific sequence motif called a SYGK motif, which is a conserved sequence of four amino acids. Although the SYGK motif has been identified in many oncoproteins, the mechanism of its function is not well understood. To better understand the function of the SYGK motif, researchers have used computational modeling to simulate the interactions of the motif with other molecules. The results of these simulations have shown that the SYGK motif is involved in multiple important biological processes, including signal transduction, protein-protein interactions, and drug resistance. The researchers hope that their findings will lead to the development of new drugs that target the SYGK motif and specifically kill cancer cells, while sparing normal cells.
The present study provides evidence that B. burgdorferi Lon-1, a homolog of the E. coli Lon protein, is an endopeptidase capable of cleaving B. burgdorferi SsrA-tagged proteins. The B. burgdorferi Lon-1 protein is also capable of protecting reduced insulin B-chain from aggregation, and is an ATPase. These results suggest that B. burgdorferi Lon-1 plays a role in protein turnover in B. burgdorferi.
This study demonstrates that antibodies opsonizing HIV-1 virions do not efficiently increase their phagocytosis by phagocytic cells. The results suggest that the low density of Env spikes on HIV-1 particles is a primary factor in preventing ADP. The study also demonstrates that the coating of virions with gp41 increases their phagocytosis by phagocytic cells.
We developed a computational model to estimate the economic burden of hookworm disease globally. The study shows that the total economic burden of hookworm disease was $11 . 1 billion (95% UI: $5 . 5–18 . 5 billion ) in 2016 . This is a substantial cost that is likely to increase over time due to population growth . In 2016, the economic burden was $87 . 9 billion (95% UI: $1 . 7–302 . 3 billion ) in Africa, $406 (95% UI: $20–1 , 595 ) in Europe, $202 (95% UI: $17–672 ) in the Eastern Mediterranean, $176 (95% UI: $17–672 ) in the Western Pacific, and $48 (95% UI: $40–51 ) in South East Asia. The model was able to capture the economic burden of hookworm disease across different age groups and countries. The economic burden was highest among adults aged 15–64 years , which accounted for over 75% of the total burden . By stratifying the economic burden by country, the model was able to capture the highest burden in countries with high prevalence rates of hookworm infection, such as Brazil, China, and India.
Hypoxia impairs the formation of the telencephalic commissure in zebrafish embryos. Here we show that hypoxia induces disruption of the TCPT commissure, which normally connects the forebrain of the embryo. We found that hypoxia can be rescued by the pharmacological inhibition of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1α (hif1α), or by overexpressing a constitutively active form of hif1α. We also show that hif1α mutants are disrupted under hypoxia, and that hif1α is necessary for the formation of the TCPT commissure. Furthermore, we found that the disruption of the commissure is due to a genetic pathway involving ephrinB2a, a molecule necessary for axonal guidance. Our findings suggest that hypoxia disrupts axon pathfinding in the developing zebrafish brain by impairing a conserved genetic pathway.
This study aimed to develop a non-invasive method for evaluating the pathological changes in lungs of mice with paracoccidioidomycosis, a pulmonary fungal disease. This method uses high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) to analyze the density and topographic distribution of pulmonary lesions in mice and to compare these findings with histopathological results. The study showed that HRCT is a reliable tool for the evaluation of pulmonary lesions in mice with paracoccidioidomycosis and that it can be used as an alternative to histopathology. The HRCT findings revealed that the main pathological patterns of pulmonary lesions in mice with paracoccidioidomycosis were nodular-diffuse, confluent and pseudo-tumoral, which were located predominantly in the upper and middle lung regions. The study also demonstrated that HRCT can be used to monitor the progression of pulmonary lesions in mice with paracoccidioidomycosis. Overall, this study suggests that HRCT is a useful tool for evaluating pulmonary lesions in mice with paracoccidioidomycosis and that it can be used as an alternative to histopathology.
The study aimed to develop a novel diagnostic tool for the detection of L. donovani infection using an IFN-γ release assay (IFN-γRA) based on the QuantiFERON ELISA kit. The assay was modified by adding five different antigens, namely Leish A, Leish B, H2B, H2B-PSA2 and H2B-Lepp12 peptides, and a whole organism antigen (crude soluble antigen). The antigens were tested in four different study groups: active VL, cured VL, endemic healthy control (HEC), and non-endemic healthy control (NEHC). The assay was positive for all subjects in all study groups after stimulation with PHA, indicating their immunocompetence. The highest sensitivity was found with the SLA antigen (80%), followed by H2B-Lepp12 peptides (53.8%) and H2B-PSA2 peptides (40.7%). However, the sensitivity of the IFN-γRA was very low for CSA (6.3%) and H2B (10.5%). Specificity was highest for SLA (100%), followed by H2B-PSA2 peptides (91.4%) and H2B-Lepp12 peptides (86.6%). Although the sensitivity of the IFN-γRA was lower than that of the RK-39, it had a higher specificity. The IFN-γRA could be useful as a diagnostic tool for the detection of L. donovani infection in endemic areas where other diagnostic tests are not readily available.
The bacterium Yersinia pestis causes bubonic plague, which is a devastating disease with a mortality rate of up to 90%. We tested how a small protein called CnfY affects the survival of Yersinia pestis within host cells. We found that CnfY is required for the intracellular survival of Yersinia pestis and reduces the risk of death in infected mice.
We have demonstrated that the rice blast fungus M. oryzae is able to survive and grow in an oxidative environment by deleting a gene that encodes a putative endogenous antioxidant enzyme. We identified the gene DES1 in M. oryzae by homology to a known fungal antioxidant enzyme and demonstrated that its deletion leads to enhanced oxidative stress tolerance. Additionally, we showed that the deletion of this gene also leads to a reduction in the amount of the fungus that is killed by the antifungal drug sodium hypochlorite. These results suggest that DES1 is an important gene for the survival of M. oryzae in various environments.
The study used a model-based geostatistical (MBG) approach to predict the prevalence of schistosomiasis haematobium (S . haematobium) infection in Ghana. A total of 79 schools were surveyed in 2010 and the observed prevalence was compared to the predicted prevalence from the 2008 survey. The predicted prevalence from 2008 was shown to have good discriminative capacity to distinguish between observed and predicted prevalence of S . haematobium in 2008, but poor capacity to distinguish between observed and predicted prevalence of S . haematobium in 2010. In addition, the predictive map overestimated the prevalence of S . haematobium infection in some locations and underestimated it in others. When WHO guidelines were applied to the predicted and observed prevalence, the total number of children who would be targeted for treatment in Ghana over a 6-year period varied significantly. The study highlights the importance of considering the geographical and temporal context when using predictive models to guide schistosomiasis control programs.
We identified 54 novel prostaglandin (PG) isomers in Caenorhabditis elegans and show that many of them promote sperm guidance. Mutations in several genes involved in the synthesis of these PGs cause sperm to swim in circular paths, whereas wild-type sperm travel straight. These results reveal that PGs are crucial for male reproduction in C. elegans. We also found that fatty acid synthesis is essential for PG production. We suggest that PGs are synthesized from polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) by a mechanism that does not involve the typical cyclooxygenase pathway. Our study sheds light on the diverse roles of PGs in animal reproduction.
P99βL, an engineered thermostable beta-lactamase, was subjected to protein deimmunization by iterative mutation. Using a combination of computational prediction and experimental validation, the authors identified a set of mutations that yielded seven different epitope deletions while preserving high catalytic activity and thermal stability. The authors further developed a Pareto optimization algorithm to efficiently find the optimal set of mutations that yielded the highest possible sequence potential and lowest epitope score, while avoiding excessive loss of function. Using this algorithm, the authors identified 18 different epitope deletion strategies that produced variants with up to 39% fewer high affinity MHCII binders while retaining 65% or more of the wild type enzyme's catalytic activity. The authors also identified a subset of the most highly engineered variants that were subjected to experimental validation, with all variants displaying robust catalytic activity and thermostability. The most highly engineered variant had a 39% reduction in high affinity MHCII binders while retaining 69% of the wild type enzyme's catalytic activity. This work demonstrates a highly effective approach for generating engineered variants of P99βL with low immunogenicity while preserving function. The Pareto optimization algorithm presented here provides a useful tool for further deimmunization of proteins with therapeutic potential.
In Arabidopsis thaliana , temperature can increase the number of meiotic COs, which are important for proper chromosome segregation and genetic diversity. We found that the temperature-induced increase in COs is mediated by the Type I recombination pathway and that the increase in COs is not the result of an increase in DSBs. Our results suggest that temperature-induced COs may be derived from an increase in the ratio of NCOs to COs. Further research is needed to determine the underlying molecular mechanisms that lead to this increase in COs in response to temperature.
We present a 3R (read, reason, write) framework for building knowledge networks from diverse data sources for biomedical data exploration. We use reading experts to extract information from high-throughput data, reasoning experts to generate biomedical knowledge and combine knowledge and data networks using integration functions. We illustrate our approach by applying it to explain the function of four genes in the development of the mouse tongue. Our approach provides an efficient way to leverage diverse information sources for biomedical knowledge discovery.
The study provides a detailed analysis of the proteins and oligosaccharides present on the surface of F . hepatica EVs. The results showed that the EVs contained a wide variety of proteins involved in membrane trafficking and that several oligosaccharides were involved in the formation of the surface structures of the EVs. The study also shows that the composition of the EV surface differs between two sub-populations of EVs and that the EVs have different interactions with host cells. The findings of this study can be used to design potential EV blocking agents that may be used therapeutically to block parasite-derived EV function.
We show that the CDF2 protein interacts with the DCL1 protein and that it suppresses pri-miRNA processing in a transcription-dependent manner. We also show that CDF2 interacts with the CDF2-C domain and that it competes with DCL1-RBD in binding to pri-miRNA167. We propose that CDF2 negatively regulates pri-miRNA processing through a transcription-dependent mechanism in which it competes with DCL1-RBD for binding to pri-miRNA167.
This study shows that GGPP, a metabolic intermediate of the mevalonate pathway, plays a crucial role in oocyte-granulosa cell communication and the maintenance of ovarian function. The authors generated oocyte-specific Ggpps knockout mice and found that these mice exhibited ovarian dysfunction, including oocyte atresia and reduced litter size. They found that GGPP depletion impaired Rab-mediated vesicular trafficking, which is required for the secretion of oocyte-granulosa cell contact factors, leading to a failure of oocyte-granulosa cell communication. The authors also found that GGPP depletion inhibited protein geranylgeranylation, which is required for the activation of Rho GTPases, which in turn regulate the localization of N- and E-cadherin and beta-catenin to the cell membrane. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying ovarian function and female fertility.
In this study, the authors use molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to investigate the possible pathways for the entry of nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs) into the active site of RNA polymerase II. They first perform an unbiased search for possible pathways and identify two possible channels. They then build models for each channel with a magnesium ion and a specific NTP and perform 40 independent MD simulations for each channel. They analyze the energy of interaction between the NTP and the protein as well as the position of the NTP in the channel to determine the preferred pathway. They conclude that the secondary channel, which leads to the i+1 on-catalytic binding site, is the preferred pathway for NTP entry into the active site of RNA polymerase II.
Dengue is a common and costly disease in Southeast Asia. Thailand and Cambodia are heavily affected and health care systems in these countries underestimate the true burden of the disease. Our study examined data from prospective cohort studies in Thailand and Cambodia to estimate the magnitude of this underestimation and the true burden of dengue. We found that in Thailand the incidence of dengue in children under 15 years was at least 20 cases per 1,000 person-years, similar to incidence found in earlier cohort studies in the region. In Cambodia, the incidence was even higher, at least 30 cases per 1,000 person-years. Our study also showed that outpatient dengue cases were the largest contributor to the true disease burden, making up at least 70% of all dengue cases. These findings have important implications for dengue vaccine development and public health policy decisions.
NK cells are a type of immune cell that plays an important role in defending against viral infections. In this study, the authors examined the role of NK cells in the immune response to mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infection. They found that NK cells are necessary for controlling viral replication and for preventing excessive production of the cytokine IFN-α, which can suppress the immune response. The authors also found that NK cells are able to promote the expansion of functional antiviral CD8 T cells, which are important for fighting MCMV infections. They suggest that NK cells are able to do this by producing IFN-γ, which is important for activating CD8 T cells. Overall, the study provides important insights into the role of NK cells in the immune response to MCMV infection.
In this study, the authors investigate the function of the Arabidopsis protein AtNUC-L1, which has been identified as a novel component of the nucleolus. They find that AtNUC-L1 is required for proper rRNA transcription and processing, and that it binds to specific sequences in the rRNA genes. They also find that AtNUC-L1 interacts with the RNA-binding protein fibrillarin, which is involved in rRNA processing. The authors suggest that AtNUC-L1 plays a role in maintaining the structure of the nucleolus and in regulating rRNA transcription and processing.
HCMV is a large DNA virus that replicates efficiently in human cells. We have previously shown that HCMV requires both pUL29/28 and pUL38 to efficiently replicate. HCMV modulates HDAC activity, which influences gene expression, and the MIEP, which regulates immediate-early gene expression, and we have shown that pUL29/28 and pUL38 modulate both of these processes during infection. Here we show that NuRD, a chromatin remodeling complex, is required for efficient HCMV replication. We used shRNA to knockdown components of the NuRD complex, CHR4 and RBBP4, and found that these knockdowns resulted in significant reductions in immediate-early gene expression and HCMV DNA replication. We also found that HCMV pUL29/28 and pUL38 modulate the NuRD complex to promote efficient HCMV replication. Taken together, these data demonstrate that NuRD plays a key role in HCMV replication and that pUL29/28 and pUL38 modulate this complex to promote efficient HCMV replication.
In this study, the authors used phage display technology and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) to analyze the antibody response of young children (9 months old) and older adults (15-18 months old) against RSV-F and RSV-G proteins before and after RSV infection. They found that antibody responses against RSV-F and RSV-G proteins were different in young children and older adults. Specifically, young children had a stronger antibody response to RSV-G protein than to RSV-F protein, while older adults had a stronger antibody response to RSV-F protein than to RSV-G protein. The authors suggest that these differences may be due to differences in the antibody response to the different antigenic sites of RSV-F and RSV-G proteins. They also found that the antibody response to RSV-F protein was more stable in older adults than in young children. These findings have important implications for the development of RSV vaccines, as they suggest that vaccines targeting RSV-G protein may be more effective in young children, while vaccines targeting RSV-F protein may be more effective in older adults.
Our study shows that emodepside inhibits motility in male and female B. malayi worms. We found that the RNAi knockdown of Bma-slo-1 reduces the motility of male and female worms, while the knockdown of the LacZ gene does not affect the motility of male or female worms. We also found that the expression of Bma-slo-1 is significantly more abundant in male worms than in female worms, and that the expression of slo-1 differs between males and females. Our study also shows that the expression of Bma-slo-1 is significantly reduced after RNAi knockdown, while the expression of LacZ does not change. Our docking studies show that emodepside binds to slo-1 in the RCK region of the Slo-1 channel. We also found that emodepside inhibits motility in both male and female worms. We found that the expression of Bma-slo-1 is significantly more abundant in male worms than in female worms, and that the expression of slo-1 differs between males and females. Our study also shows that the expression of Bma-slo-1 is significantly reduced after RNAi knockdown, while the expression of LacZ does not change. Our docking studies show that emodepside binds to slo-1 in the RCK region of the Slo-1 channel. We also found that emodepside inhibits motility in both male and female worms. Our study suggests that emodepside may be an effective treatment for female Brugia malayi, but further studies are needed to fully understand its mechanism of action and potential toxicity.
This study used LC-MS/MS to identify 220 L. loa proteins that react with the W. bancrofti ICT RDT in serum from 18 persons with loiasis who were previously ICT-positive but were ICT-negative at the time of this study. The identified proteins are mostly intracellular and have diverse functions, including structural and protein binding. The protein with the highest spectral count is a putative AD12 epitope-containing L. loa ortholog of W. bancrofti filarial antigen Av33. This protein was also detected in ES products of L5 (adult) worms, but not in Mf. These results suggest that multiple L. loa antigens are cross-reactive with the W. bancrofti ICT RDT and that their release into circulation is associated with death of L. loa Mf and/or adult worms. This study also identified 71 L. loa proteins in ES products of adult L5 worms. Of these, only one protein, the L. loa ortholog of W. bancrofti filarial antigen Av33, was also detected in loiasis sera. These results suggest that the release of cross-reactive L. loa antigens occurs by a process or processes quite different from that of W. bancrofti RDTs.
Ciliated sensory neurons are important for detecting environmental cues in C. elegans. However, their function is compromised in ciliopathies, which are caused by mutations in cilia-related genes. In this study, we have identified 41 cilia-related genes in C. elegans using RNA-seq. We have then used these genes to identify 28 additional cilia-related genes using the distance-based algorithm, MEME. We found that several of these genes are co-expressed with known chemoreceptors. We used transgenic worms expressing GFP-tagged versions of these genes to examine their localization in cilia and neurons. We found that 10 genes are localized in cilia, 14 genes are localized in neurons and 4 genes are localized in both cilia and neurons. We also found that 7 of these genes are predicted to be chemoreceptors based on their expression patterns. We used transgenic worms expressing GFP-tagged versions of the genes rab-28 and rab-28(T49N), which are predicted to be GDP-bound and GTP-bound, respectively. We found that these proteins localize to different compartments within the cilium, which suggests that they may have different functions. We also found that 2 other genes, mks-5 and mks-6, are predicted to be chemoreceptors based on their expression patterns. We found that they are localized in cilia and neurons, and we identified 10 potential splice sites in their genomic sequences. We also found that mks-5 and mks-6 are predicted to be GPCRs based on their sequence similarities to other GPCRs. Our results provide new insights into the function and regulation of ciliated sensory neurons in C. elegans.
In this study, the authors demonstrate that it is possible to infer the topological features of a two-dimensional environment using spike trains from place cells in the hippocampus of a freely behaving rat. The authors use the notion of topological homology to analyze the structure of place fields in the environment and show that the simplicial complex of place cells can be used to compute the topological features of the environment. The authors also demonstrate that the structure of place fields can be inferred from the structure of the simplicial complex, even if the place fields overlap and have non-convex shapes. The authors' approach provides a novel method for inferring the topology of complex stimuli using the activity of neurons that represent the stimuli. The authors' method has the potential to be applied to a wide range of stimuli, including visual and auditory stimuli, and could provide a new way to understand how the brain represents complex stimuli.
Hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) are both highly contagious viruses that can cause significant liver damage and even death. They are transmitted through blood, semen, and other bodily fluids, as well as through contaminated food and water. Treatment for HAV typically involves supportive care, such as rest and hydration, while treatment for HBV may involve antiviral medications or vaccination. It is important to practice good hygiene and take precautions to prevent the spread of these viruses, such as washing your hands regularly and avoiding contact with blood and bodily fluids.
The study aimed to investigate the burden of hookworm infection and its relationship with anemia and iron deficiency in pre-school children in southern Malawi. We used a multiplex real-time PCR assay to identify and quantify hookworm DNA in stool samples, which was collected from 830 children. We found that the prevalence of hookworm infection in pre-school children was much higher than expected, with A. duodenale being the dominant species. We also found that high-load A. duodenale infections were associated with severe anemia and iron deficiency, even after adjusting for other potential confounders. Our study highlights the importance of using quantitative hookworm diagnostic methods to accurately assess the burden of infection and its relationship with disease.
This study describes the importance of COM1, a protein that regulates the interaction between DNA end resection and meiotic recombination in C. elegans. The authors show that COM1 is needed to prevent DNA end resection from occurring too early during meiosis, as it is required for meiotic recombination. They also show that COM1 prevents Ku, a protein involved in non-homologous end joining, from blocking DNA end resection and meiotic recombination. These findings provide insight into the mechanisms by which COM1 and Ku regulate meiotic recombination and highlight the importance of regulating DNA end resection during meiosis.
Melioidosis is a bacterial infection caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei. This study investigates the humoral immune response of goats to B. pseudomallei during aerosol infection. The study reveals the immune response was more intense in the form of IgG antibodies, followed by IgM antibodies, and involved multiple antigens. This study also identifies five antigens that were highly immunogenic in goats, namely GroEL, Eno, TPX, AhpC2, and CPS. These antigens may be potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of melioidosis.
We report that cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity increases during the period between nuclear migration and mitotic entry in human cells. This increase is gradual and begins in the cytoplasm, before nuclear translocation. Reducing the expression of Cdk1 in G2 cells results in delayed entry into mitosis and does not impair completion of mitosis. We propose a model in which different thresholds for cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity control mitotic events. These thresholds are required to ensure the efficient activation of cyclin B1–Cdk1, allowing for the proper execution of mitotic events.
In this study, we used a combination of functional and computational approaches to investigate the antibody response in a recently discovered group of HIV-infected women who had been superinfected with a second strain of HIV. We found that these women had a broad and cross-reactive antibody response that was similar to that seen in some HIV-infected individuals. However, the specificity of the response varied between individuals and the antibody response to one epitope was not always the dominant response. These findings highlight the complexity of the antibody response to HIV infection and the importance of using a variety of approaches to study it.
In this study, we found that HCMV IE1 regulates the expression of Hes1 and Sp100A, two key transcription factors involved in neuronal development and function. We also found that IE1 represses the expression of Hes1 and Sp100A by recruiting them to the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Furthermore, we found that HCMV IE1 interacts with Sp100A to form an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, which is required for the downregulation of Hes1. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms by which HCMV IE1 interferes with neural development and function.
Our work describes the binding of transcription factors (TFs) to DNA regions and their effect on gene expression in different Drosophila species. Using ChIP-seq, we mapped the binding of four TFs (BDCD, Gt, Hb, and Kr) to the Drosophila genomes in four different species (D. melanogaster, D. pseudoobscura, D. yakuba, and D. virilis) and examined their binding patterns and differences among species. We analyzed the sequences of bound regions and their motifs, and found that while motifs were largely conserved, there were differences among species and TFs. We then estimated the effects of binding patterns on gene expression by mapping binding regions to genes and measuring mRNA levels using mRNA-seq. Our results suggest that while some of the differences we observed may be due to random effects, there are also functional differences among species and TFs. We also describe a method for comparing TF binding and gene expression patterns between species based on principal component analysis (PCA) of binding variance or mRNA levels, respectively. We found that PCA can be used to identify relationships among species and TFs, and to distinguish between functional and random differences. Overall, our work provides insights into the mechanisms of TF binding and gene expression, and identifies a new method for analyzing TF-DNA interactions in different species.
Filariasis is a disease caused by the parasite Wuchereria bancrofti that is transmitted through mosquito bites. The study was conducted in 95 villages in the Ampara and Vapi districts of Gujarat, India, to assess the effectiveness of mass drug administration (MDA) in controlling the disease. MDA has been used for many years to control filariasis, but it is not clear if it has stopped the spread of the disease. The study found that the prevalence of filarial infection in the communities decreased from 2.3% before the MDA to 1.4% after 8 rounds of MDA. The study also found that the prevalence of infection in children aged 2-8 years decreased from 1.9% before MDA to 1.2% after 8 rounds of MDA. However, the prevalence of infection in children aged 5-8 years was 1.9% after 8 rounds of MDA, which is higher than the recommended threshold of 1%. The study also found that there were clusters of high prevalence of infection in some villages, which could lead to the resurgence of the disease if not properly managed.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that causes severe flu-like symptoms in humans. The most common mosquito that transmits the disease is the Aedes aegypti, which breeds in containers of water, such as buckets, drums, and flowerpots. Temephos is a chemical used to kill the mosquito larvae in these containers. This systematic review evaluated the effectiveness of temephos in controlling dengue vectors and dengue disease transmission. The results showed that while temephos was effective in reducing the number of mosquito larvae and pupae, its effectiveness in controlling dengue transmission was mixed. The review also identified several factors that can affect the effectiveness of temephos, such as the type of water, the environmental conditions, and the timing of application. Overall, the review suggests that temephos can be an effective tool for dengue vector control, but its effectiveness depends on several factors and needs to be carefully monitored and managed.
The Ctf19 complex plays a crucial role in the establishment of cohesion, an important process for the correct segregation of genetic material in budding yeast. We have identified two proteins, Iml3 and Chl4, that are essential components of the Ctf19 complex. We have shown that the Chl4 protein recruits cohesin to the centromere, where cohesion is required for chromosome segregation. In the absence of Chl4, cohesion is impaired and cells fail to divide properly. We have also shown that the Iml3 protein is important for the recruitment of cohesin to the centromere. Finally, we have shown that the Ctf19 complex is important for the loading of cohesin at the pericentromere, a region that surrounds the centromere and is also required for chromosome segregation.
This study is the first to present an integrated metabolomics and lipidomics analysis of serum samples from adult dengue fever patients. Our study identified significant changes in serum metabolites, including fatty acids, lipids, amino acids and nucleotides, that are closely associated with the progression of dengue fever. These metabolites are likely to reflect immune responses and energy metabolism changes that occur during dengue infection. Furthermore, our study provides a comprehensive molecular view of the host responses that lead to the overall homeostatic physiological outcome of dengue fever.
This study presents the first comprehensive analysis of NTD research conducted in Germany using social network analysis. The study's aim was to identify German research institutions and leading researchers in NTD research. The study analyzed 897 articles published between 2000 and 2014, with authors from German research institutions, and identified 4,348 individual researchers. The study found that there are 220 different research institutions in Germany conducting NTD research. The study identified 30 leading researchers with high productivity, who had collaborated with other researchers from Germany and abroad. The study also found that Germany has a significant presence in global NTD research, although this presence is more fragmented than in other high-income countries. The study recommends that Germany prioritize strengthening existing collaborations and establishing new ones with researchers from low- and middle-income countries, particularly those in Africa.
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) are a group of 17 parasitic, bacterial, and viral infections affecting more than 1 billion people worldwide. These infections can cause severe disabilities, mental health complications, and economic burden. Seven of the 14 Haitian departments (out of a total of 10) reported more than 20% prevalence of soil-transmitted helminths (STH) infections caused by Ascaris, Trichuris, and hookworm in 2002. In 2000, the prevalence of lymphatic filariasis (LF) infection caused by Wuchereria bancrofti parasites was assessed as 45% in children aged 6 to 11 years old in 117 of the 140 present communes. The program to eliminate LF and STH has been ongoing since 2001, with a focus on annual mass drug administrations (MDAs) targeting these diseases. The program has been successful, with high coverage rates reported for both STH and LF in 2014-2015. The program has also led to significant reductions in infection prevalence at sentinel and spot-check sites and pre-treatment assessment sites. The per-person treated cost of the program was US$0.35 to 0.37 between 2010 and 2013. Overall, the Haitian program has been successful in controlling and eliminating NTDs, with a focus on community participation, strong supply chain, and good coverage rates. However, the program faces challenges in sustaining the elimination of LF and reducing STH prevalence after MDA cessation. The success of the Haitian program can contribute to the growing global portfolio of best practices for NTD control and elimination.
The bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti forms nodules on the roots of legumes, where it converts atmospheric nitrogen into a form that the plant can use. To do this, it needs to go through a series of steps, including the formation of bacteroids (specialized cells that live inside the nodule) and the process of nitrogen fixation. In this study, the authors use a variety of methods to explore how a protein called CtrA regulates these processes. They find that CtrA is involved in controlling the formation of bacteroids and the process of nitrogen fixation, and that it does this by controlling the expression of a number of different genes. The authors also find that CtrA is controlled by another protein called FixJ, which is involved in the process of nitrogen fixation. Overall, this study provides new insights into how a bacterium regulates the important process of nitrogen fixation.
In this study, we investigated the role of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) in the growth of Francisella tularensis, a highly virulent bacterium that causes tularemia in humans and animals. We used a combination of genetic, biochemical, and molecular approaches to show that GGT is essential for the intracellular growth of F. tularensis in macrophages and that it is involved in the utilization of glutathione (GSH) as a source of cysteine. We also showed that the ggt mutant is attenuated in virulence in mice and that it is unable to form biofilms. Furthermore, we demonstrated that GGT is involved in the survival of F. tularensis in the extracellular environment and that it is involved in the utilization of gamma-glutamyl-cysteine dipeptide as a source of cysteine. Our study provides new insights into the metabolism and virulence of F. tularensis and suggests that GGT may be a potential target for the development of new therapeutic strategies against tularemia.
In this study, the authors used multidimensional live imaging to investigate the intracellular dynamics of parasite fusion in Leishmania donovani-infected macrophages. They observed that parasites from the same species fused faster than those from different species, and that the fusion process was dependent on the parasite stage. The authors also showed that parasites from the same species could form chimeric parasites, which were composed of both species of promastigotes. Overall, the study provides valuable insights into the complex dynamics of parasite fusion in Leishmania donovani-infected macrophages.
In this study, the authors developed and characterized an autologous vaccine for HIV-1 that is based on trimeric Env gp120-gp140. The vaccine was produced in two generations of VLPs that were made by co-transfecting 293T cells with a gp160∆CT expression plasmid and pNL4-3. Luc. R-E-. The first generation of VLPs consisted of wild-type (WT) gp120-gp41, while the second generation of VLPs consisted of WT gp120-gp41 with SOS mutations. The authors also produced a third generation of VLPs by replacing the gp120-gp41 pair with SOS mutants. The authors then immunized guinea pigs with three different vaccine formulations (autologous, pooled seronegative, and heterologous). They showed that the autologous vaccine could induce cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies that recognized both homologous and heterologous isolates. The authors then showed that the autologous vaccine could protect guinea pigs from lethal infection with a heterologous isolate, while the seronegative and heterologous vaccines could not. The authors then performed an epitope analysis of the autologous vaccine and showed that the vaccine induces cross-reactive antibodies that bind to quaternary epitopes. The authors also demonstrated that the vaccine could induce antibodies that recognize both the CD4bs and the V3 region of the envelope. Finally, the authors showed that the autologous vaccine could induce broadly neutralizing antibodies that recognize both Tier 1 and Tier 2 isolates.
Buruli ulcer is an infectious disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans, which mainly affects the skin and underlying tissues. It is endemic in West and Central Africa, and people living in rural areas are particularly at risk. Treatment of Buruli ulcer typically involves a combination of antibiotics and surgery. Despite successful treatment, some patients develop delayed wound healing, which can result in the need for skin grafting and long-term disability. The mechanisms underlying delayed wound healing in Buruli ulcer are not well understood, but may be related to the immune response to mycobacterial infection and the presence of mycolic acid, a substance produced by the bacterium that can inhibit wound healing. In this study, we aimed to identify specific markers that can be used to monitor the progression of wound healing in Buruli ulcer lesions. We collected tissue samples from eight patients with Buruli ulcer before, during, and after completion of antibiotic treatment, and analyzed them for the presence of specific proteins and cells associated with wound healing. Our results suggest that αSMA-positive myofibroblasts and activated mTOR pathway may play important roles in the healing of Buruli ulcer lesions. These markers could potentially be used to monitor the progression of wound healing in Buruli ulcer patients, and to identify factors that may contribute to delayed healing. Understanding the mechanisms underlying wound healing in Buruli ulcer is important for improving the management of this disease and reducing the long-term disability it can cause.
Mitochondria are the powerhouses of cells, and their movement has been suggested to play important roles in cellular function. However, how mitochondria move and how their movement affects their function is not yet well understood. In this study, we investigated the dynamics of mitochondrial movement in sensory neurons of the rat sciatic nerve and compared the mitochondrial movement patterns of axons with different electrical activity levels. We found that the mitochondria in axons with higher electrical activity levels moved faster and for longer periods of time. We also found that mitochondria moved in a more random and disperse manner in axons with higher electrical activity levels. These results suggest that the movement of mitochondria in sensory neurons is affected by the level of electrical activity in the axons.
We studied the molecular mechanisms underlying spinal fusion in Flnb-deficient mice using a combination of histological, immunohistochemical and molecular techniques. We found that Flnb loss leads to abnormal TGFβ-SMAD signaling and apoptosis in chondrocytes, which causes the transformation of the AF into a bone-like tissue. These changes lead to vertebral fusions, which we found to be initiated by the differentiation of chondrocytes into osteoblasts. Our findings may provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying vertebral fusions and may inform the development of new therapies to prevent or treat these conditions.
In this study, the authors aim to identify host proteins that interact with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) protein NS5A. To do this, they use the HCV replicon cell line HEK293T and the CRISPR-Cas9 system. They first create a library of CRISPR guide RNAs targeting 150 genes that are potential interactors of NS5A. They then screen this library in HEK293T cells infected with the HCV replicon. After identifying 28 potential interactors, they use a series of confirmatory experiments to validate these interactions. They also investigate the function of these proteins in the context of HCV infection.
The current study provides a detailed characterization of the human proteome. The authors used a combination of quantitative mass spectrometry and western blotting to identify and quantify 4000 distinct proteins in various human cell lines, representing a significant portion of the human proteome. The study identified a large number of previously uncharacterized proteins and novel interactions between known proteins. Additionally, the study provides a comprehensive analysis of the expression of proteins in various human cell lines, which can be used to better understand the function of these proteins and their role in various biological processes.
The glycocalyx is a complex and dynamic carbohydrate-rich layer on the surface of cells in the human body. This layer protects cells and acts as a barrier for the entry of pathogens. Inflammation can cause damage to the glycocalyx, leading to increased permeability and a loss of its protective function. This can result in cellular damage and can be life-threatening. One way that the glycocalyx can be damaged is through the action of viruses. The dengue virus, which is a mosquito-borne virus that causes flu-like symptoms, can cause severe damage to the glycocalyx of cells in the human body. This can lead to increased permeability, which can result in organ failure and death. This review provides an overview of the glycocalyx, how it can be damaged by viruses, and the potential consequences of this damage. It also discusses some of the research that has been done on the glycocalyx and its role in disease.
Dma1 and Dma2 are bud-neck-localized proteins that are essential for the formation of the mitotic spindle and for cytokinesis in S. cerevisiae. Dma proteins regulate septin dynamics and promote the recruitment of Elm1 to the bud neck. Elm1 is required for proper mitotic exit in the presence of misaligned spindles and interacts with Kin4 to promote its phosphorylation, which is required for SPOC response. We propose that Dma proteins control mitotic exit by modulating septin dynamics and regulating Elm1 localization at the bud neck.
We have found evidence of positive selection for variants associated with several pathways and processes that are known to be important for human physiology and disease. These pathways and processes include pigmentation, UV radiation, and immune response, and they are implicated in various diseases such as autoimmune diseases, cancer, and inflammatory processes. We found strong evidence of selection for variants involved in different aspects of the immune response to pathogens, including pathogen resistance, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. We also found evidence of selection for variants related to pigmentation, including those that confer resistance to UV radiation. Finally, we found evidence of selection for variants involved in inflammatory processes, including those that confer resistance to autoimmune diseases. These findings suggest that natural selection has played an important role in shaping the genetic landscape of human diseases and that there may be opportunities for targeted therapies based on the results of these studies.
The human heart beats over a billion times a day, and for that to happen, the heart's electrical system needs to be precisely coordinated. However, this system is not perfect and can sometimes fail, leading to dangerous heart rhythms and potentially life-threatening conditions. One of the main components of the heart's electrical system is the hERG/IKr potassium channel, which helps regulate the heartbeat. A mutation in the hERG gene can cause the IKr channel to become less active, leading to changes in the heartbeat. In this study, we use computer simulations to better understand how this mutation affects the heartbeat. We compare different mathematical models of the IKr channel to see which one best describes the behavior of the channel under different conditions. We then use these models to simulate the effects of the mutation on the heartbeat. By doing this, we hope to gain a better understanding of how the mutation affects the heartbeat and how we can better treat people with it.
This study uses deep neural networks to model and analyze collective behavior in zebrafish. The authors first use a deep attention network to extract information about the behavior of individual zebrafish from video recordings, and then use this information to develop a model of how individual zebrafish interact and influence each other's behavior. The model is based on two functions: a pairwise interaction function that describes how the behavior of one zebrafish is influenced by the behavior of another, and a second function that assigns a weight to each individual zebrafish in the aggregation. The authors then use this model to predict the future behavior of zebrafish in a 6-dimensional space, based on their current behavior and the behavior of their neighbors. They find that the model accurately predicts the behavior of zebrafish in a variety of situations, and that it can be used to identify important variables that influence the behavior of zebrafish. The authors also find that the model can be used to predict the future location of zebrafish, and that it can be used to study interactions in any animal species or other agents. The authors conclude that their model provides a new way to understand and analyze collective behavior in zebrafish.
This study assesses the transmission fitness of HIV drug resistance mutations using phylodynamic methods. The study includes 15 drug resistance mutations associated with reverse transcriptase and protease inhibitors. The transmission fitness of drug resistant strains was found to be significantly higher for the 90M mutation in the protease and the 138A mutation in the reverse transcriptase. In contrast, the transmission fitness of strains with the 67N, 70R, 184V, 181C, and 190A mutations was found to be significantly lower than the transmission fitness of sensitive strains. The study also quantifies the transmission cost of resistance mutations through time and finds that it was significantly lower before 1994, between 1994 and 2001 and around 1 after 2001. The transmission cost of resistance mutations is likely to increase in the future due to the increase in prevalence of resistant strains. Overall, this study highlights the importance of quantifying the transmission fitness of drug resistant strains in the context of HIV epidemics.
In this study, we uncover a connection between the Elongator complex and tRNA modification that is relevant for protein translation and stress response. We identify that the absence of Elongator results in the accumulation of non-modified tRNA isoforms, which leads to a decrease in translation efficiency and increased sensitivity to oxidative stress. Our findings suggest that the Elongator complex plays a role in the modification of tRNAs and their subsequent participation in protein translation, which is important for cell survival under stress conditions.
We have shown that the HIV-1 Nef protein alters the sensitivity of HIV-1 Env to neutralizing antibodies. This effect is linked to the ability of Nef to alter the lipid composition of viral particles, and is dependent on Nef myristoylation.
The study reports the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos snails infected with Opisthorchis viverrini compared to uninfected snails. These results may provide insights into the molecular mechanisms of snail-parasite interactions, and potentially lead to the discovery of molecules and pathways that may be involved in mechanisms of resistance or susceptibility to parasites in intermediate snail hosts.
The article "Complement receptor 1 as a susceptibility gene for leprosy" presents an analysis of the association between the CR1 gene and susceptibility to leprosy. The study uses a sample of 46 leprosy patients and 426 controls from Brazil and identifies 18 different CR1 haplotypes. The authors find that individuals carrying a recombinant haplotype of the CR1 gene with the rs3849266*T and rs3737002*p . 1408Met alleles have a two-fold increased susceptibility to leprosy, while individuals carrying the rs12034383*G allele have a higher mRNA expression of the CR1 gene and individuals with the rs3737002*p . 1408Met allele have a lower sCR1 protein level. These findings suggest that CR1 may be a susceptibility gene for leprosy and that its expression and protein levels are associated with the development of the disease.
This study used metabolomics data from the KORA F4 study, a German population-based cohort, to investigate the influence of sex on the concentration of 131 metabolites in serum. A linear regression analysis was performed to compare metabolite concentrations between males and females, controlling for age, BMI, and internal batch effects. The results showed that 100 out of 131 metabolites had significantly different concentrations between males and females. The most pronounced differences were observed in phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin species, which were higher in women, and in acylcarnitines, which were higher in men. Additionally, a partial correlation network analysis was performed to identify different metabolic pathways and networks in males and females. This analysis showed that the metabolites were divided into six non-overlapping clusters with distinct distributions between males and females. The results of this study provide valuable insights into the metabolic differences between males and females and highlight the importance of sex-specific analysis in metabolomics studies.
We provide a method for formulating metabolic engineering objectives that is robust to changes in stoichiometry representation. The method captures the flux rewiring effects of genetic modifications and is based on the objective of minimizing metabolic adjustment. We demonstrate its usefulness by applying it to metabolic engineering targets in yeast and by comparing its predictions to experimental results.
In Madagascar, the distribution of plague seroprevalence in rats is influenced by the landscape. We analyzed the distribution of plague seroprevalence in rats from four areas of Madagascar: Mandoto, Betafo, Ambositra, and Moramanga. We found that the distribution of plague seroprevalence in rats is influenced by the topographic relief of the area. The highest plague seroprevalence was found in areas with the highest relief, while areas with low relief had the lowest plague seroprevalence. We also found that plague seroprevalence was related to genetic structure in areas with high relief. These findings suggest that the topographic relief of an area influences the distribution of plague seroprevalence in rats and humans, and that plague transmission may be influenced by the genetic structure of the rat population.
This study identified 11 new members of the S. mansoni Ly6 family, a family of parasite surface proteins that interact with the host immune system. The proteins have a unique structure and are expressed on the surface of adult worms. The authors also investigated immune responses to these proteins in human blood samples. The study provides valuable information for the development of new drugs and vaccines to treat schistosomiasis.
The Drosophila eye is a complex tissue composed of many cells that are arranged in a specific pattern to form an ommatidium. The shape and size of the ommatidium are determined by the distribution of N-cadherin proteins on the cell membranes. Recent studies have shown that the distribution of N-cadherin is not static but is dynamic and depends on the timing of gene expression and the sequence of cell-cell contacts. In this study, the authors develop a mathematical model to explain the observed N-cadherin distribution in the Drosophila eye. The model is based on the assumption that the tissue is a thin membrane and that the N-cadherin proteins are distributed in a way that minimizes the energy required to maintain the tissue shape. The authors use the model to make predictions about the expected shape of ommatidia with different patterns of gene expression and cell-cell contacts, and compare their predictions with experimental data. The results of the study provide a new understanding of the mechanisms that regulate the distribution of N-cadherin proteins in the Drosophila eye, and may be applicable to other tissues with similar structures.
Montesano et al. developed a computational model that simulates the behavior of invadopodia, which are actin-rich protrusions that cancer cells use to invade and metastasize. The model takes into account the various proteins and interactions that are known to be important for invadopodia formation and function, such as MT1-MMP, TIMP-2, ErbB receptors, and ECM. The model also incorporates the effects of drugs that target invadopodia, such as bafilomycin, which inhibits lysosomal acidification. By using the model, Montesano et al. were able to make predictions about how invadopodia behave in response to these drugs and to test these predictions by performing experiments. They found that bafilomycin had a greater effect on invadopodia than on ErbB receptors, and that the rapid turnover of MT1-MMP at invadopodia is important for its function. The model provides a framework for understanding the complex interactions that occur in invadopodia and for testing new hypotheses about their behavior.
In this study, we used genetic sequencing to characterize the diversity and evolution of HIV-1 drug resistance mutations (DRMs) in four macaques infected with HIV-1. We analyzed virus samples taken at multiple time points after the animals were exposed to HIV-1. We found that each animal had a unique set of DRMs, suggesting that the DRMs arose independently in each animal. We also found that the animals developed different DRMs at different times, indicating that the DRMs were selected for during the course of the infection. We used statistical tests to assess whether the DRMs were selected for or arose by chance. Our findings suggest that the DRMs in these animals arose through natural selection and were not simply inherited from the virus that infected them.
The study shows that negative feedback is a key mechanism for self-organization and the creation of morphological patterns in tissues. The study uses mathematical models and simulations to show that negative feedback can lead to self-organization, even in the absence of morphogens. The study also shows that negative feedback can lead to the creation of morphological patterns by regulating cell growth. The study provides evidence for the role of negative feedback in the development and maintenance of tissues.
Myopia, commonly known as nearsightedness, is a common eye condition where a person can see objects clearly up close, but has difficulty seeing far away. The exact cause of myopia is not known but it appears to have a genetic component. A large genome-wide association study involving 45,771 Europeans has been conducted to investigate the genetic causes of myopia. The study found 20 novel associations with myopia. One of the associations was with the gene ZNF644, which is involved in the development of the eye and may play a role in myopia. Other associations were found with genes involved in the development of the retina and in neuronal signaling. The study also found that certain myopia risk alleles were more strongly associated with the age of onset of myopia than with myopia itself. These findings suggest that myopia may develop through a complex genetic and developmental process. The study provides important new insights into the genetic causes of myopia and may help in the development of new treatments for the condition.
Feedback mechanisms in the spinal cord of lampreys, a type of jawless fish, were investigated using a computational model that incorporates a central pattern generator (CPG) that generates a rhythmic swimming motion and proprioceptive feedback from edge cells that sense the curvature of the body. The effects of the feedback on the swimming motion were studied by varying the gain, or strength, of the feedback. The results showed that both magnitude and directional feedback could improve the efficiency of the swimming motion, but that the direction of the feedback was more important than its strength. The effects of the feedback on the body wavelength, the distance between two consecutive points with the same phase of the swimming motion, were also studied. It was found that directional feedback could lead to a decrease in body wavelength, while magnitude feedback could lead to an increase in body wavelength. The results of the study provide insights into how feedback mechanisms in the spinal cord of lampreys might improve the efficiency of their swimming motion.
HIV infections in Central Africa have been expanding exponentially in recent years, and new strains are emerging rapidly . The dynamics of these new HIV strains are poorly understood, partly because of the complexity of human sexual networks in these regions. We present a model to study how the competition between strains may affect the dynamics of HIV epidemics. We find that the competition between strains may strongly influence the epidemic's expansion, with a significant first-comer advantage. We also show that superinfection, the process whereby a person who has recently become infected with one virus type becomes subsequently infected with another type, plays a key role in limiting the expansion of the epidemic. Our results highlight the potential importance of local adaptation of strains in slowing down the global spread of HIV.
The data from the study suggest that a hierarchy of biochemical and mechanical signals is required to organize the myofibril complexes in cardiomyocytes. The data also suggest that the shape of the cell boundary plays a crucial role in the organization of the myofibril complexes. The authors propose a computational model to simulate the organization of the myofibril complexes. The model accounts for the effect of the shape of the cell boundary, the mechanical properties of the cytoskeleton, and the biochemical signals that drive the organization of the myofibril complexes. The model suggests that the shape of the cell boundary is a key determinant of the organization of the myofibril complexes. The authors also propose a novel experimental approach to test the model by measuring the traction forces exerted by the myofibril complexes. The authors suggest that their computational model and experimental approach can be used to better understand the organization of the myofibril complexes in cardiomyocytes and to develop new therapeutic strategies for cardiovascular diseases.
Wolbachia is a bacterium that can be used to control the spread of dengue virus by infecting and sterilizing Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. In this study, we used laboratory and field experiments to determine the feasibility of using Wolbachia to control dengue in five different areas of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. We found that Wolbachia can successfully invade and become fixed in all five areas, but the invasion dynamics were affected by differences in the size of the local mosquito population. We also observed differences in the carrying capacity of the Wolbachia strain in the five areas, with the highest carrying capacity observed in the area with the lowest mosquito population. Our results suggest that Wolbachia could be an effective tool for controlling dengue in many different urban environments, but that the optimal release strategy will depend on the characteristics of the local mosquito population and the landscape.
JMJ703 is an important H3K4 demethylase in rice plants. We used EMS to mutate JMJ703 and obtained a T-DNA insertion line that showed reduced growth and stunted development. Transformation of rice callus with the cDNA fragment of JMJ703 NCZ region led to transgenic plants that showed restored growth and development. We used tobacco infection and nuclei isolation to demonstrate that JMJ703 is a H3K4 demethylase. We also performed in vitro histone demethylation assays with JMJ703-JmjC and found that JMJ703 has a catalytic core that is similar to that of JMJD2 proteins. Our study provides further evidence of the importance of H3K4 demethylation in rice plant development.
HIV-1 has a unique way of targeting its genetic material to the nucleus of host cells. The virus hijacks a host protein called Nup153 to attach its RNA genome to the nuclear pore complex, which it uses as a gateway to enter the nucleus. This attachment process involves a specific interaction between Nup153 and a part of the HIV-1 protein called CA. In this study, we identified two new ways in which host proteins can inhibit HIV-1. Firstly, we found that a host protein called CPSF6 can bind to CA and prevent it from attaching to Nup153. Secondly, we identified a new way that HIV-1 inhibitors called CAIs can block infection. We found that CAI inhibitors can bind to CA in a way that prevents it from attaching to Nup153. This work provides important insights into how HIV-1 targets the nucleus and how it can be blocked.
We have used recombination data to improve the assembly of the genetic map of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae, which is the main vector of malaria in Africa. We found that recombination rates are low in mosquitoes, especially in regions around the centromere, leading to genome regions with high levels of non-coding sequence. This can lead to problems with mapping genes affecting disease transmission. We used our improved genetic map to map resistance to malaria in mosquitoes. We found that resistance is caused by a single locus on one of the chromosomes, which is likely to contain genes that can be used to develop new malaria control strategies.
Here we show that different mosquito traps used for surveillance purposes have distinct spatial and temporal patterns of mosquito infestation and that these patterns are consistent across tropical regions in Brazil. Trap based surveillance should take this difference into account when designing a control strategy.
A3G is an important host protein that protects cells from HIV-1 infection. In this study, the authors present a model of the structure of the dimeric form of A3G, which provides insights into the RNA-dependent oligomerization of this protein. Using site-directed mutagenesis and biochemical analysis, the authors demonstrate that oligomerization of A3G is mediated by the N-terminal CDA domain, which has a high degree of basic residues that are predicted to interact with the dimer interface. The authors also show that the oligomerization of A3G is dependent on RNA, as the protein forms a dimeric complex in the presence of RNA, but not in its absence. The authors further demonstrate that the oligomerization of A3G is important for its antiviral activity, as mutations that reduce its oligomerization ability also reduce its antiviral activity. Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the structure and function of A3G, which may be useful for the development of therapeutic approaches to treat HIV-1 infections.
In this study, the authors investigated the genetic architecture of sex-specific abdominal pigmentation in Drosophila melanogaster by using natural alleles from an inbred line collection. They identified three regions containing multiple sequence variants that are associated with pigmentation variation, and these regions appear to affect transcriptional regulation through multiple cis-acting regulatory elements. The authors also measured allele-specific expression of the bab genes in heterozygous females and found that variation in bab2 transcript levels is the primary determinant of adult pigmentation. Overall, this study provides a detailed characterization of the genetic and functional determinants of a complex quantitative trait and illustrates the potential of model systems to inform the analysis of human genetic variation.
The current study provides evidence that the two main systems for regulation of competence and production of bacteriocin (BlpC) in Streptococcus pneumoniae operate independently in some contexts. The blp locus encodes for a bacteriocin and its associated immunity protein, while the competence locus is involved in the uptake of DNA from other bacteria. It was previously thought that the production of bacteriocin was linked to the uptake of competence-associated DNA. However, the current study shows that pneumococci can produce bacteriocin in the absence of the competence system. This was observed in a strain with a mutation in a single nucleotide that affected the binding of a transcription factor to the promoter region of the blp locus. Despite the mutation, the production of bacteriocin was not significantly affected, indicating that the competence system is not required for the production of bacteriocin. This finding is important because it suggests that the two systems for regulation of competence and bacteriocin production can operate independently.
In recent years, the importance of non-canonical translation initiation factors in the initiation of poliovirus translation has been increasingly appreciated. It has been shown that PCBP2, a protein that interacts with the viral RNA in the 5′ NCR, can bind to the ribosomal protein eIF4G to form a translation initiation complex that recruits the ribosome to the viral RNA. However, little is known about the role of other initiation factors in this process. One of these factors, SRp20, has been shown to interact with PCBP2 and to be important for viral translation, but its specific functions and interactions during translation are not clear. In this study, the authors examined the localization and functions of SRp20 in the context of poliovirus infection. They found that SRp20 is localized to the nucleus in mock-infected cells, but it re-localizes to the cytoplasm during poliovirus infection. This re-localization is accompanied by a decrease in the amount of SRp20 in the nucleus and an increase in the amount of SRp20 in the cytoplasm. The authors also found that SRp20 interacts with PCBP2 bound to the viral RNA and that this interaction is important for viral translation. These findings provide important new insights into the localization and functions of IRES trans-activating factors (ITAFs) during poliovirus infection.
This study used a whole genome screen to identify a novel mutation in the Erbb3 gene that leads to embryonic lethality. The mutation, called msp1, is a point mutation in the extracellular domain of the Erbb3 protein that affects its function during neural crest development. The authors used a variety of methods, including molecular modeling, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry, to characterize the mutation and its effects on protein function and embryonic development. They also used the msp1 mutation as a tool to identify other genes involved in neural crest development.
The presented study investigates the impact of age, sex, and cercariae exposure on the risk of Schistosoma mansoni reinfection in a multi-disciplinary study design. The study population was observed for 11 months after praziquantel treatment and reinfection was assessed by serological tests. The study findings suggest that ethnicity, sex, and cercariae exposure are associated with reinfection risk, with a greater risk observed in females and individuals who have been exposed to cercariae for longer periods of time. The study also provides insights into the influence of age and cercariae exposure on the dynamics of the immune response to infection and suggests that the observed differences in infection intensity may be due to differences in susceptibility to infection rather than differences in the level of cercariae exposure. The study highlights the importance of considering the role of host factors in understanding the dynamics of schistosomiasis infection and the response to treatment and provides valuable insights into the challenges faced by intervention programs aimed at controlling this disease.
This study collected adult worms of Clonorchis sinensis from infected humans in an endemic area of Korea and analyzed the correlation between worm number and egg counts. The number of worms collected per person was not high, and a moderate positive correlation between egg counts and number of worms was found. The estimated egg productivity per worm and median egg productivity per worm were relatively high compared with those of laboratory animals. These results suggest that human clonorchiasis is a highly productive infection in terms of egg production. However, due to the small sample size and lack of accuracy of worm counting, it is difficult to compare egg productivity per worm between human clonorchiasis and opisthorchiasis. Further studies are needed to accurately estimate the number of worms in humans and their egg productivity per worm.
In this study, the authors performed a genetic screen to identify genes that are synthetically lethal with fluconazole resistant PDR1 alleles in C. glabrata. They identified GCN5 as a conserved synthetic lethal interactor and demonstrated that targeting GCN5 with the chemical inhibitor γ-butyrolactone is lethal in both C. glabrata and S. cerevisiae strains expressing PDR1 gain of function alleles. They also showed that chemical inhibition of GCN5 prevents the emergence of fluconazole resistance in C. glabrata. These results suggest that targeting synthetic lethal interactions may be a novel approach to combating drug resistant infections.
We have discovered that the picornavirus non-structural protein P3 plays a role in events before and after replication. We found that P3 protein interacts with RNA and is required for the replication of subgenomic RNA. We also found that P3 protein interacts with PI4P, which is important for replication, and that it can inhibit the formation of replication complexes. Finally, we found that the presence of P3 protein is important for the proper assembly of the replication complexes. Our findings suggest that P3 protein plays a crucial role in the replication of picornaviruses.
A small group of compounds was selected from a database of compounds and evaluated for their ability to inhibit the enzyme cruzain. These compounds were identified through a process of virtual screening, which involves analyzing the compounds using computer programs. The compounds that were selected are known as non-covalent binding inhibitors, which means they bind to the enzyme without changing the chemical structure of the enzyme. These compounds were found to inhibit cruzain in a process known as competitive inhibition. This means that the compounds compete with the natural ligands, or molecules that bind to the enzyme, for the active site of the enzyme. The compounds identified in this study were found to have affinities in the low micromolar range, which is a measure of how strongly the compound binds to the enzyme. The binding mode of one of the compounds, Nequimed176, was confirmed through X-ray crystallographic studies. These studies involve using X-rays to create a detailed picture of the structure of the enzyme and the compound bound to it. The findings of this study suggest that these compounds have potential as new antichagasic drugs, which are drugs that can treat Chagas disease. These drugs are important because Chagas disease is a major public health problem in many parts of the world.
In this study, we developed a DNA vaccine using the envelope protein of the yellow fever virus (YF). We first identified seven YF envelope protein 15-mer peptides that generated strong T-cell responses in mice. Then, we designed two plasmids expressing the whole envelope protein: one with the LAMP sequence at the C-terminus (pL/YFE) and one without it (p/YFE). Both plasmids produced high levels of anti-YF nAb, but only pL/YFE generated significant T-cell responses. We then evaluated the protection provided by these two DNA vaccines against an intracerebral challenge with the YF virus. Both vaccines were able to protect both mouse strains from encephalitis caused by the virus. However, only pL/YFE was able to produce significant levels of anti-YF nAb. These results suggest that the DNA vaccine expressing the envelope protein in-frame with the LAMP sequence is a promising candidate for further development.
V. cholerae requires the N-terminal domain of the TetR-like regulator SlmA to bind DNA at the Pchb promoter to repress expression. Nucleoid occlusion by SlmA is required for this repression and can be relieved by chitin. Expression of Pchb is induced by chitin and can be further enhanced by removing the gene encoding the chitin transporter, CbpA. Mutation of the SBS and/or the TSS of Pchb did not affect expression, but mutation of the region between the SBS and TSS abolished it. The region between the SBS and TSS contains a sequence that may be recognized by a coactivator. The promoter region contains a putative hairpin and a possible binding site for a response regulator. Transcriptional regulation of Pchb is a mechanism to integrate the cell division status with activation of chitin utilization.
A framework for handling complex biological data using a combination of algebraic modeling and data analysis is proposed. The framework is based on a novel reformulation of the problem of finding a solution to a biological system as an optimization problem with constraints. The framework can be used to handle problems with nonlinear behavior, such as those arising in biological systems, by using a technique called the Reformulated Algebraic Modeling (RAM) framework. The framework also includes a method for handling data with missing values, called the Algebraic Modeling with Missing Data (AMD) framework. The framework is applied to a variety of biological problems, including gene expression analysis, metabolic modeling, and microbial community analysis, and is shown to outperform existing methods in terms of accuracy and computational efficiency. The framework is also shown to be flexible and scalable, allowing it to be applied to a wide range of biological systems.
This study used a novel technology called the nCounter to perform high-throughput gene expression analysis on the spleen, lung, kidney, liver, and brain of SW outbred mice infected with neurotropic West Nile virus (WNV). The study found that different genes were differentially expressed in each tissue over the course of infection. The results also indicated that the lung, kidney, liver, and brain were all infected with WNV, although the liver was not fully infected. The study identified a number of chemokines that were differentially expressed in the lungs and brain. The study also used the Bio-Plex Pro platform to analyze the protein expression levels of select chemokines in each tissue. The protein expression profiles matched the RNA expression profiles. The study also identified differentially expressed genes that were specific to each tissue.
The study aimed to investigate the clinical and epidemiological features of human rabies cases detected during an outbreak in Mozambique, and the risk factors for developing rabies. The study showed that the majority of human rabies cases were children below 15 years of age and that the majority of animal bites occurred in people living in the suburbs. The study also showed that most animal bites were caused by dogs and that a high proportion of dog bite victims did not receive post-exposure vaccination. The study recommended aggressive interventions, including regular canine mass vaccination campaigns, improvement of the provision of vaccines to humans and animals, and massive education in communities and primary schools.
In this study, we used a knockin mouse model to investigate the role of SCN9A mutations in febrile seizures. We found that the SCN9A-N641Y mutation, which was previously identified in our large family with febrile seizures, caused a significantly reduced seizure threshold in SCN9A knockin mice. The N641Y mutation is located in a highly conserved region of the sodium channel, and it likely disrupts the normal function of the channel. Our results suggest that the N641Y mutation is disease-causing in this family, and it provides strong evidence for a role of SCN9A mutations in febrile seizures.
This manuscript provides a detailed description of the GPT-framework, a versatile computational framework for the simulation of morphogenesis, the development of shape, and the emergence of complex patterns from the interactions of regulatory networks. The framework is based on a mechanistic approach, and is implemented in the form of a set of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which describe the interactions of a set of signalling factors. These factors interact through a set of mechanistic rules that describe how the factors are produced, consumed, and diffused in space, and how they regulate the activities of other factors. The GPT-framework can be used to model a wide range of morphogenetic processes, including cell fate determination, pattern formation, and tissue growth. The framework can be easily extended to include additional regulatory mechanisms, and can be used to study the effects of various factors on the development of a given system. Overall, the GPT-framework provides a powerful tool for the study of morphogenesis, and can help researchers to better understand the complex interactions that underlie the development of shape and pattern in living organisms.
This study examined the effects of interference on escape mutations in HIV-infected patients. The study utilized a computational model of HIV infection, and found that interference between multiple escape mutations caused the emergence of ERD, which is a phenomenon observed in data from early HIV infection. The authors suggest that previous research on ERD may have underestimated the role of interference in this process. The study highlights the importance of considering the interactions between multiple mutations when studying the evolution of HIV, and underscores the need for further research to better understand the mechanisms behind ERD.
This study aimed at developing a mechanistic model to predict the response of NSCLC patients to cisplatin-based doublet regimens by adapting the model to 13 real clinical cases. The authors proposed a mathematical model describing the dynamics of tumor cell populations based on 6 parameters. They first adapted the model to reproduce the tumor growth kinetics of NSCLC in vivo and compared the results with the available literature data. Then, they tested the sensitivity of the model to the parameters of interest and identified the factors that most influence the response of NSCLC to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Finally, they applied the model to 13 real clinical cases of NSCLC and compared the predicted treatment response with the observed response. Overall, the study shows that the proposed model can accurately estimate the response of NSCLC to cisplatin-based doublet regimens in vivo and is sensitive to the key factors influencing this response.
The study is focused on understanding the biofilm-specific tolerance to the antibiotic ofloxacin in Escherichia coli. The authors found that the biofilm-specific tolerance is mediated by the SOS response, which is triggered by the depletion of carbon source and amino acids. The SOS response is necessary for the biofilm-specific tolerance, and the absence of RelA or LexA impairs the ofloxacin tolerance in biofilms. The study sheds light on the mechanisms underlying biofilm-specific tolerance to antibiotics and provides insights into the potential for targeting these mechanisms to improve antibiotic efficacy.
The goal of this study is to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the response of malaria parasites (P. falciparum) to reduced oxygen availability in the bloodstream. The study first focuses on the parasite's response to low oxygen by measuring changes in gene expression and protein levels. The study then explores the role of specific proteins, including PfPKAr and PfPKAc, in regulating the response to low oxygen. The authors also investigate the role of specific RNA sequences in regulating the response to low oxygen. Overall, the study provides important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the parasite's response to low oxygen in the bloodstream.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth, prevalent throughout the tropics and subtropics. The infection is often asymptomatic, but can be severe in individuals with compromised immunity. This paper provides an overview of the current state of knowledge on the prevalence of S. stercoralis infection in different countries and populations. The authors conducted a meta-analysis of published data on the prevalence of S. stercoralis infection in communities and hospitals, in adults and children. They found that the prevalence of S. stercoralis infection is highly variable across different countries and populations, with many factors influencing the infection rate, including age, socio-economic status, and environmental factors. The authors highlight the need for more research to better understand the factors that influence S. stercoralis infection and to develop better diagnostic tools and treatment options.
This is a method article describing a new approach for inferring changes to stochastic noise in circadian rhythms from population-level bioluminescence data. Stochastic noise, which is inherent to single-cell biological oscillators, is known to affect the dynamics of population-level rhythms. However, measuring stochastic noise in circadian rhythms has typically required careful single-cell experiments, which have not been amenable to high-throughput approaches. In this study, we show that changes to stochastic noise can be reliably inferred from the damping rate of population-level bioluminescence recordings. We demonstrate the validity of our approach on several types of circadian data, including single-cell and high-throughput screens. By using our approach, we show that changes to stochastic noise are sufficient to explain the observed changes in population-level damping rate. Our results should prove especially important in the future search for small molecule circadian therapeutics, as it allows the effect of candidate drugs on stochastic noise to be quantified in a high-throughput manner.
This study investigates the binding affinity of the antibiotic PC190723 to the dimeric bacterial protein FtsZ from Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis, and Staphylococcus epidermidis. The authors used MD simulations to analyze the conformations of the PC190723-binding pocket in FtsZ from these species, and compared their results to the PC190723-binding pocket in a crystal structure of FtsZ from S. aureus. They developed a novel algorithm, PocketFEATURE, to evaluate the similarity of the binding pockets across different species. The authors found that the PC190723-binding pocket in FtsZ is similar across all four species, and that PC190723 has high binding affinity to FtsZ from S. aureus, but not to FtsZ from B. subtilis or S. epidermidis.
The present study describes the functional characterization of the NTD-IBD interface of HIV-1 IN . The authors provide data showing that the IBD of HIV-1 IN binds to the NTD of an intact IN dimer, thereby facilitating dimerization. This finding is based on biochemical analysis of a complex of HIV-1 INNTD+CCD and LEDGF IBD. The authors also report that a mutant HIV-1 IN with reverse charge mutations within the NTD gained the ability to functionally interact with a modified version of LEDGF, while remaining basically unresponsive to the WT protein. This is shown through in vitro strand transfer assays. The authors conclude that the NTD-IBD interface is important for the functional interaction between HIV-1 IN and LEDGF, and that it carries potential for future development of retroviral vector technologies.
Here, we present a theoretical model that explores the evolutionary dynamics of cancer stem cell populations and the emergence of intratumoral heterogeneity. The model is based on an agent-based approach that simulates individual cell dynamics and allows for the investigation of the impact of different kinetic properties on overall tumor progression. Our study suggests that cell proliferation potential is the strongest modulator of tumor growth, and we observe that cancer stem cells are themselves heterogeneous, with different subpopulations dominating local expansion. We also find that cancer stem cell and non-stem cancer cell populations are in spatial competition and that reducing the number of CCs leads to accelerated cancer stem cell expansion and tumor growth.
This research presents a theoretical approach to understanding the emergence of infectious diseases in the context of spatial population structure. We introduce an analytical model for the probability of emergence of a novel disease, adapting to human transmission, given an introduction of infectious hosts into a human population. We also calculate the probability of having an epidemic, given an introduction of infectious hosts into a human population, and derive the average waiting time for an emergence. We extend our analysis to include a simple village-city model, in which we study the effects of spatial heterogeneity on the emergence of a novel infection, using empirical data on commuting patterns. Our analysis suggests that for typical population sizes and mobility patterns, spatial heterogeneity has only a very limited effect on the emergence of a novel disease, and that in the case of plausible parameter ranges, emergence can be considered to be almost independent of the spatial structure of the human population.
Here, we studied the genetic diversity of avian influenza viruses (AIVs) sampled from 1985 to 2009 in two different locations in North America, Alberta in Canada and Delaware Bay in the United States. We sequenced the full genomes of 300 randomly selected viruses, focusing on the highly prevalent H3 subtype, which circulated in wild birds over the 25-year period. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the viruses from Alberta and Delaware Bay have been circulating independently for a long time, and there was no evidence of recent introductions of Eurasian viruses into North America. We estimated the migration rates of the viruses between the two locations using a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo approach. Our results suggest that the migration rates of AIVs are relatively low, with viruses circulating predominantly within their respective locations. However, there was some evidence of migration between the two locations, and the migration rates were statistically significant. Our analysis also revealed that the viruses from Alberta and Delaware Bay have been recombining frequently, with a large number of reassortments occurring over the 25-year period. Overall, our results suggest that AIVs are well-established in North America and have been evolving independently for a long time, with a relatively low level of migration between different locations.
Our study focused on the development of cross-reactive monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against influenza A viruses. We obtained a MAb, S139/1, which cross-reacts with H1 and H3 subtype viruses. The amino acid sequences of H1 and H3 in the epitope recognized by MAb S139/1 are conserved. MAb S139/1 neutralized WSN (H1N1), Adachi (H2N2), Aichi (H3N2), and Memphis (H3N2) viruses in vitro. Intranasal immunization of MAb S139/1 protected mice from lethal infection with WSN (H1N1) and Aichi (H3N2) viruses. MAb S139/1 also protected mice from lethal infection with H3N2 viruses when administered intraperitoneally. The mechanisms of the cross-reactivity of MAb S139/1 and the protective efficacy of this antibody require further investigation. However, our study provides evidence for the potential of cross-reactive antibodies against influenza A viruses in vivo.
This study evaluated the effectiveness of a case finding and treatment strategy to control Strongyloides stercoralis in an Australian Aboriginal community. The study found that a case finding and treatment strategy was highly effective in controlling S. stercoralis infection. Of the 259 subjects initially diagnosed with S. stercoralis, 207 were followed up at 3 years and 13.4% were still positive for S. stercoralis infection. The study found that the prevalence of S. stercoralis infection increased with age, and that 9.3% of the community had S. stercoralis infection. The study also found that the treatment success rate for S. stercoralis infection was 86.6% at 3 years.
We have studied strain interference, which occurs when different strains of prions compete for the same target population of PrPSc-infected cells and thereby affect the emergence of the dominant strain. We used hamsters as a model to investigate strain interference between three different prion strains: 139H, 139H, and ME7H. We used PCR-based assays and found that the PrPC requirements of DY, 139H, and ME7H are not sufficient to support prion strain interference and that the ratio of the C1 and C2 cleavage fragments of PrPC is not affected by the presence of other strains. We also found that the availability of PrPC can influence strain interference and affect the emergence of a strain from a mixture of strains. These findings suggest that the availability of PrPC can affect prion strain interference and affect the emergence of a strain from a mixture of strains.
The comprehensive ensemble model proposed in this study provides a framework to study allostery in regulatory proteins at the interface between order and disorder. This study focuses on the effect of two pathways (MWC and EAM) involved in the order-order transition and order-disorder transition, respectively, and their competition or cooperation on the allostery landscape. It is found that the MWC pathway is more competitive than the EAM pathway in dominating strong allostery. However, a hybrid model combining the two pathways would achieve a higher probability of allostery than a pristine EAM model or a pristine MWC model, especially for order-disorder transitions. The results demonstrate the importance of the interface between order and disorder in allostery, and highlight the possible roles of IDPs and IDPs/IDRs in allostery.
This study explores the role of the beta-catenin protein in the development and progression of prostate cancer. The authors demonstrate that beta-catenin is essential for the formation of prostate epithelia during embryonic development. They also show that high levels of beta-catenin are associated with squamous metaplasia of prostate epithelia and can drive transdifferentiation of luminal epithelial cells to squamous cells. Furthermore, the authors find that high levels of beta-catenin in adult prostate epithelial cells can lead to squamous metaplasia. The authors also explore the role of beta-catenin in prostate cancer progression and find that beta-catenin is not necessary for the progression of prostate cancer in the absence of androgens.
In a low income setting, participants preferred to receive information verbally from a person they trust rather than through written documents. The community valued the information provided and saw it as a form of respect. Researchers suggested tailoring communication to the community’s expectations and preferences. This study provided insights into how information about the genetic study could be provided to participants in a culturally appropriate manner. This informed the consent process in the study and could be used in future studies in similar settings.
We have developed a mathematical model of cell proliferation to explain differences in proliferation rate between thymus and spleen cell populations in young and old B6 and FVB mice. The model considers the different phases of the cell cycle and the effects of EdU labelling. We have used our model to identify specific differences in cell proliferation between B6 and FVB mice. Our results show that the proliferation rate of T cells varies between strains and ages and is influenced by genetics. These results are relevant for understanding ageing, immunology, and cancer.
The authors present a novel mtDNA mutation in mouse cells that leads to a defect in mitochondrial tRNAIle structure, which in turn leads to the formation of a novel tRNAIle molecule. This novel tRNAIle molecule is unable to fold into a functional conformation, leading to the loss of mitochondrial protein synthesis efficiency. The authors demonstrate that this mutation leads to the accumulation of mitochondrial protein synthesis intermediates, such as apo-tRNAIle, which are associated with oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and pathological changes in the brain and heart. The authors provide evidence that the mutant mtDNA can be partially compensated by the acquisition of a second mutation that allows the formation of a functional tRNAIle molecule.
In this study, the authors aimed to determine the relationship between the number of active X chromosomes in human cells and the expression of X-linked genes. They used microarray data from 16 different human cell lines, including 69, XXX CD2, 69, XXX CD3, 69, XY 1, 69, XY 2, 69, XY 4, 75, XXY 1, 75, XXY 2, 75, XXY 3, 75, XXY 4, 69, XXX, 69, XX, 69, XY, 69, XX, 69, X, 69, XX, and 69, XY. They found that in triploid cells with two active X chromosomes, the expression of X-linked genes was upregulated by about twofold compared to diploid cells with one active X chromosome. However, in triploid cells with one active X chromosome, the expression of X-linked genes was only upregulated by about 1.5-fold compared to diploid cells. They also found that the expression of X-linked genes in diploid cells with two active X chromosomes was not significantly different from that in diploid cells with one active X chromosome. These results suggest that the expression of X-linked genes in triploid cells is not proportional to the number of active X chromosomes. They also found that the expression of X-linked genes in triploid cells with one active X chromosome was not significantly different from that in diploid cells with two active X chromosomes. This suggests that the expression of X-linked genes in triploid cells with one active X chromosome is not proportional to the number of active X chromosomes.
This study provides a theoretical analysis of the dN/dS ratio, a commonly used measure of evolutionary pressure in protein-coding sequences. The study extends the original analytical framework developed for comparisons of distantly related lineages to comparisons within a population. The study shows that in populations the relationship between the dN/dS ratio and the selection coefficient can be quite different from that for divergent lineages. The study highlights the need for caution when using dN/dS to infer the strength and direction of selection in populations and provides guidelines for interpreting dN/dS values from empirical data.
Natural selection can cause linked neutral sites to have lower levels of divergence between species. This is because selection against deleterious mutations will reduce the amount of polymorphism at these sites, which will in turn reduce the variance in divergence between species. This effect is not limited to genic regions or to species that have split recently. The correlation between neutral divergence and recombination rate was also found to be positive. These results suggest that neutral divergence may be more affected by selection than previously thought.
This study shows that CK2 isoforms are required for the sustained rhythmicity of the circadian clock in Drosophila. CK2α, a catalytically inactive isoform, appears to suppress rhythmicity by inhibiting the phosphorylation of CLOCK (CLK) and its partner BMAL1, which is required for the CLK-BMAL1 transcriptional complex to drive the expression of circadian genes. The study also shows that CK2β has a positive effect on rhythmicity by promoting the phosphorylation of CLK and BMAL1 and enhancing the transcriptional complex's activity. These results suggest that the balance between CK2α and CK2β activity is crucial for the proper regulation of the circadian clock.
The adhesion of T. cruzi parasites to the epithelial cells of the insect vector R. prolixus is an important step in the metacyclogenesis and colonization process of T. cruzi. In this study, the authors used flow cytometry to quantify and analyze the adhesion of wild-type and chagasin-transfected T. cruzi parasites to the midgut and rectum of R. prolixus. They found that the adhesion of chagasin-transfected parasites to the midgut was significantly reduced in comparison to the wild-type parasites, but the adhesion to the rectum was not affected. The authors also observed a reduction in the activity of cruzipain in the chagasin-transfected parasites, suggesting that the reduced adhesion to the midgut could be caused by a decrease in the activity of cruzipain. These findings provide new insights into the role of chagasin and cruzipain in the adhesion of T. cruzi parasites to the insect vector R. prolixus.
This study aimed to identify suppressors of mutations in the heavy chain of the cytoplasmic dynein motor complex in Caenorhabditis elegans. By using RNA interference (RNAi) to reduce the function of the heavy chain, the authors found that mutations in several accessory subunits of the dynein complex, including dylt-1, dylt-2, and dylt-3, can suppress the mutant phenotype. They also found that reducing the function of the light intermediate chain 1 (dli-1) can enhance the mutant phenotype. The authors used a combination of genetics, microscopy, and biochemistry to study the role of these dynein subunits in mitosis and meiotic spindle assembly. They found that reducing the function of dylt-1, dylt-2, or dylt-3 can suppress the meiotic and mitotic phenotypes caused by mutations in the heavy chain. They also found that reducing the function of dli-1 can enhance the mitotic phenotype caused by mutations in the heavy chain. The authors suggest that these subunits may play negative regulatory roles in the dynein complex. This study provides new insights into the regulation of dynein function and its role in mitosis and meiotic spindle assembly.
This paper describes the role of the Ku70-Ku80 heterodimer in a specialized programmed DNA cleavage during meiosis in the unicellular green alga Paramecium tetraurelia. The authors show that the Ku70-Ku80 complex is required for programmed DNA double-strand breaks during inter-macronuclear recombination (IMR), which is a process that leads to the exchange of genetic material between two specialized organelles in the cell. The authors demonstrate that Ku70-Ku80 is required for the formation of repair factories, where DNA double-strand breaks are generated during IMR. They also show that Ku70-Ku80 is required for the activation of the programmed DNA cleavage complex. The authors propose that Ku70-Ku80 is involved in the recruitment of the DNA cleavage complex to the target sites.
The aim of this study was to investigate the temporal nature of gene expression changes during prion disease progression in mice. A total of 1031 differentially expressed genes were identified in prion-infected CA1 neurons, which are the main neurons in the hippocampus, during three stages of disease. Previously unknown changes in gene expression during early stages of prion disease were discovered. These changes included the up-regulation of genes associated with synapse function and neuronal survival, and the down-regulation of genes associated with synaptic plasticity and neuronal death. A subset of these genes included known prion-induced genes, confirming their dysregulation during prion disease progression. In addition, 17 differentially expressed miRNAs were identified, of which 6 were up-regulated in prion-infected CA1 neurons during early stages of disease. These miRNAs are known to regulate synaptic plasticity and neuronal death. Our findings suggest that the early stages of prion disease are associated with the induction of a protective response in CA1 neurons, including the up-regulation of synaptic genes, and the down-regulation of genes associated with neuronal death. These changes are accompanied by the dysregulation of miRNAs that are known to play a role in synaptic function and neuronal survival.
We have developed a mathematical model of the granuloma immune response to Leishmania donovani infection. Using stochastic Petri nets, we simulated the immune responses of normal and immunodeficient mice, including the activation of macrophages and the production of cytokines by leukocytes. The model was able to faithfully reproduce many of the known features of EVL, including the role of IL-10 in disease persistence and the importance of CD4+ Th1 cells in effector function. The model also predicted the effectiveness of IL-10 inhibition in vivo and provided novel insights into the dynamics of effector function within granulomas. Our results suggest that the local environment within the granuloma shapes the effector response and that granulomas may behave as autonomous units of immune function. We further found that IL-10 production by Kupffer cells plays the most dominant role in regulating leishmanicidal activity within granulomas. Finally, our data indicates that autocrine IL-10 production by Kupffer cells has a greater impact on host resistance to infection than IL-10 production by other cells.
This study shows that it is possible to design genetic circuits that approximate elementary arithmetic operations, such as addition, multiplication, and division, as well as more complicated functions like logarithms, trigonometric functions, and exponentials. The circuits are based on transcriptional regulation and use the output levels of genes to encode the results of the calculations. The study suggests that such circuits could be useful for engineering synthetic biology systems that require computation, and that they could be implemented in natural organisms as well.
This study presents the first evidence of coinfection with two different genotypes of the chikungunya virus (CHIKV) in humans in South America. The study used a new sequencing approach to detect and characterize the coinfection in eight cases from the Northeast region of Brazil. The results showed that the two genotypes, ECSA and Asian/Caribbean, are simultaneously circulating in the region, and that coinfection likely plays a role in the observed higher variability of the virus. The study provides new insights into the molecular epidemiology of CHIKV and highlights the importance of sequencing viral genomes directly from clinical samples. The findings have implications for public health efforts focused on epidemic surveillance and outbreak control.
The current study shows that Salmonella enterica possesses a complex regulatory network for controlling gene expression, with global modulation by H-NS and H-NS-like proteins. H-NS is a transcriptional repressor that plays a key role in silencing newly acquired DNA, and is encoded on the bacterial chromosome and in some plasmids. In this study, we show that H-NS-like proteins encoded on some Salmonella plasmids have evolved to selectively modulate genes acquired by horizontal gene transfer. This is achieved by recognizing specific DNA sequences, and the presence of an additional protein of the Hha family is required for efficient modulation. Our results provide evidence for two different genetic compartments that are differentially modulated by H-NS and Hha-like proteins: core genes and horizontally acquired genes. The results also show that H-NS and Hha-like proteins act as sentinels for the acquisition of foreign DNA, and provide a mechanism for allowing the efficient integration of new genes into the host regulatory network.
The study identifies 700 genes that are conserved between three different species of Leishmania parasites: L. braziliensis, L. major, and L. infantum. The study then examines the expression of these genes in the amastigotes, the intracellular stage of the parasite's life cycle. The study finds that only 17% of these genes are differentially expressed between the species, with the majority of these genes showing similar expression patterns across all three species. The study then examines the expression of these genes in amastigotes from immunocompetent and immunocompromised mice. The study finds that 9% of the genes are differentially expressed between the two types of mice, with the majority of these genes showing increased expression in immunocompromised mice. The study then examines the expression of these genes in amastigotes from L. braziliensis, L. major, and L. infantum. The study finds that only 3% of the genes are differentially expressed between the three species, with the majority of these genes showing similar expression patterns across all three species. The study concludes that these genes are conserved across Leishmania species and are important for their intracellular survival.
This article describes a novel diagnostic assay for the detection of the liver fluke Amphimerus sp. in human feces. The assay, named LAMPhimerus, is based on the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) technology, which allows for the amplification of target DNA sequences at a constant temperature. The specificity and sensitivity of the assay were evaluated using both conventional parasitological techniques and molecular methods, such as PCR. The results demonstrated that the LAMPhimerus assay was highly specific and sensitive, even in the presence of other closely related parasites. Additionally, the assay was shown to be highly tolerant to sample-derived inhibitors, making it suitable for use in field settings with limited resources. Overall, the LAMPhimerus assay shows great potential for the rapid and accurate diagnosis of amphimeriasis in resource-limited settings.
Autophagy is a degradation pathway in which cellular waste is degraded and recycled to maintain cellular homeostasis. The autophagy machinery requires a set of core proteins that orchestrate the autophagic process. One of the key proteins involved in autophagy is Ykt6, a RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase. Ykt6 is highly conserved and essential for autophagic flux. While the roles of Ykt6 in autophagy have been well studied, its function in other cellular processes is still unclear.
This study describes a novel mechanism by which NTHI enters host cells. NTHI is able to import LL-37 and hBD3 directly into its cytoplasm, where it is then degraded by a cytoplasmic peptidase. This process is likely to be a mechanism of NTHI resistance to host defenses, allowing it to evade killing by antimicrobial peptides.
Stochastic activators control the expression of multiple genes by activating and deactivating them in a random manner. The regulatory molecule that controls the activity of a stochastic activator degrades randomly over time, affecting the rate and degree of expression of downstream genes.
In this study, the authors investigated the role of the enzyme myeloid-derived protein kinase 2 (MKP-2) in the immune response to Leishmania major (L. major) infection. They found that MKP-2−/− mice infected with L. major had a healing phenotype similar to wild-type mice, despite a diminished TH1 response and an enhanced TH2 response. The authors also found that MKP-2−/− macrophages were equally as effective as MKP-2+/+ macrophages in controlling L. major infection. These findings suggest that MKP-2 does not play a significant role in the immune response to L. major infection, and that the immune response to L. major infection is regulated by other mechanisms.
A mathematical model of the formation of the pancreatic ductal tree is presented. The model is based on a combination of experimental data from in vivo studies and computational simulations. The model proposes that the formation of the ductal tree is driven by fluid flow and that the formation of a network of interconnected ducts is an adaptive process that optimizes fluid flow. The model also predicts that the size of the ducts is proportional to the cubic root of the fluid flow through them, and that ducts will be eliminated if they do not contribute to efficient fluid flow. The model provides a framework for understanding the development of the pancreatic ductal tree and could be used to predict the effects of genetic or environmental factors on ductal development.
We used computational methods to analyze the structure and dynamics of kinesin and to identify the molecular basis for the allosteric coupling of its microtubule-binding site to its ATPase activity. By analyzing a set of crystallographic structures and simulations, we found that the α4–α5 subdomain of kinesin undergoes the largest-scale collective motion, driven by a conformational change in the α4 helix. This motion is intrinsically accessible to the protein structure, and we found evidence that it is not directly dependent on the bound nucleotide. We also found that the orientation of the neck-linker is coupled to the α4–α5 subdomain, and that the binding of ADP causes the protrusion of α4 and the detachment of the neck-linker. Furthermore, we identified specific residues in the neck-linker and microtubule-binding site that are involved in this allosteric coupling. By using mutational analysis, we found that mutations of these residues affect the conformational change in the α4 helix and the allosteric coupling to the microtubule-binding site. We believe that this work provides new insights into the dynamics and allosteric mechanisms of kinesin, which are relevant for understanding its function as a motor protein.
In this article, we describe a new method for measuring gene expression using Lux reporters. The method involves a mathematical model that relates changes in bioluminescence to changes in gene expression. The model is based on the kinetics of the LuxI and LuxR proteins, as well as the product inhibition of the LuxAB reaction. We have used the model to provide a method to infer gene expression from bioluminescence, which can be generally applied to experiments using Lux reporter assays. The method is useful because the model shows a nonlinear relationship between gene expression and light output, which is not apparent from bioluminescence itself. The method could be valuable in inferring gene expression levels in a wide range of biological systems where Lux reporter assays can be employed.
In this study, we present the structural analysis of GPP3 in complex with the whole CVA16 virus particle, focusing on the hydrophobic pocket below the canyon in VP1. We identified the key residues involved in the interactions with the capsid binder GPP3 including Phe135 and Tyr155 which make a hydrophobic sandwich with the phenoxy moiety, as observed for EV71. The crystal structure in complex with GPP3 allowed us to identify the key residues involved in the interactions with the capsid binder and to identify the hydrophobic sandwich formed between the phenoxy moiety and two residues in the pocket. Moreover, QMPLD method, guided by the observed crystal structures, provided reliable docking results and identified the residues in the CVA16 pocket interacting with NLD and ALD. We supported these structural results with virus-cell-based assays using the respective inhibitors. Finally, structural comparisons were used in a meta-analysis to correlate structural features with differences in antiviral activity. These results reinforce the potential of NLD as a candidate for a HFMD drug.
In Drosophila melanogaster, the necrotic serpin Nec is produced in the fat body and taken up by the pericardial and garland cells. Nec is delivered to lysosomes by endocytosis, where it is degraded. The LpR1 receptor facilitates endocytosis of Nec, and the LpR2 receptor does not. Drosophila lacking LpR1 accumulate more Nec in the haemolymph and have a stronger immune response to infection.
In this study, the authors provide evidence for the role of Nodal signaling in establishing left-right (LR) asymmetry in sea urchin embryos. They show that Nodal signaling is upstream of BMP signaling and that Nodal signaling regulates BMP signaling to control gene expression in the left and right side of the embryo. The authors also show that Nodal signaling is required for the survival of the left-sided cells in the embryo and that it regulates the asymmetric expression of genes involved in LR patterning.
A study published in the journal Nature Communications reports that the CDK inhibitor roscovitine can rescue HCMV gene expression in non-permissive cells by inhibiting Cyclin A2-CDK activity. The authors propose that CDK inhibition may be a potential strategy for antiviral therapy.
HIV-1 infection induces a broad range of immune responses in immune cells, including production of type I interferons (IFNs) in dendritic cells (DCs). Here, we studied how DCs from HIV-1 elite controllers (EC) are different from DCs from HIV-1-infected patients. EC are a rare population of HIV-1 patients who maintain undetectable levels of HIV-1 viremia for decades without antiretroviral therapy (ART). We showed that DCs from EC had a higher capacity for producing type I IFNs after HIV-1 infection compared to DCs from chronic progressors (CP) and antiretroviral-treated patients with suppressed HIV-1 viremia (HAART). We also identified several key genes involved in type I IFN production in EC, including those encoding DNA sensors for HIV-1 and cGAS, a cytosolic DNA sensor. We showed that type I IFN production in EC DCs was associated with a more efficient generation of HIV-1 reverse transcripts, while HAART-treated patients had decreased HIV-1 reverse transcription and increased integration. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of HIV-1 immune control in EC, and suggest that interventions targeting the early steps of HIV-1 reverse transcription may be promising for the development of new therapies against HIV-1.
We have identified genes that increase the levels of stored fat in Drosophila larvae using a simple and rapid screening method. We tested 870 homozygous viable mutants by floating them on a sucrose solution and comparing their levels of stored fat to those of wild type animals. We found that Sir2, a gene that encodes an NAD+-dependent deacetylase, was responsible for the majority of the positive results. We found that Sir2 mutants accumulated more fat than wild type animals, and that this was due to an increase in the levels of stored fat, not an increase in food intake. We also found that Sir2 mutants survived longer when starved on a sugar-based medium that lacks amino acids. These results suggest that Sir2 plays an important role in energy homeostasis in Drosophila larvae.
In this study, we compared the cell mechanics of spindle positioning of 128 nematode species from the Rhabditidae family, focusing on the role of spindle displacement, elongation, and rocking. We analyzed 8,659 embryos from these species and found large variations in spindle size and motion. We found no difference in spindle mechanics between self-fertilizing and outbreeding species, and we did not observe any specific adaptation of spindle movements to the reproductive strategy of the species. These results suggest that spindle movements are not coupled together in a specific mechanical mechanism, and they have evolved independently. Our study provides a resource for researchers interested in the evolution of cellular mechanisms, and it highlights the importance of considering a broad range of species when studying complex traits.
The Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium genome encodes a number of proteins involved in DNA bending and folding. These proteins form a regulatory network that is important for the growth and survival of the bacterium. The network includes a number of proteins that are specifically expressed at low pH, including OmpR and H-NS. These proteins bind to the DNA and regulate gene expression in response to environmental cues. OmpR is particularly interesting because it has been shown to regulate the expression of genes that are important for the growth of Salmonella in low pH environments, such as inside macrophages. OmpR is also involved in regulating the expression of genes that are important for the expression of other genes in the network. Understanding how this regulatory network operates will help us to better understand the mechanisms by which Salmonella is able to survive and thrive inside macrophages.
In this study, the authors identified a novel protein named NUE, which was secreted by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis during infection. They discovered that NUE was a SET domain protein that bound and methylated host chromatin, suggesting that it might play a role in modulating host gene expression. The authors identified the NUE gene as a TTS gene, which was transcribed but not translated by the bacterium. They also found that NUE contained a secretion signal, suggesting that it might be secreted into the host cell. The authors generated anti-NUE antibodies and found that NUE was present in the nucleus of infected HeLa cells. They also found that NUE bound to host chromatin and that it was enriched in the promoter regions of genes that were upregulated during infection. Finally, the authors demonstrated that NUE had auto-methyltransferase activity and that it could bind and methylate histone H3 in vitro. Overall, these findings suggest that NUE might play a role in modulating host gene expression during Chlamydia trachomatis infection.
In the present study, we explored the association of genome-wide homozygosity with height in 21 population samples from 11 different European countries. We used genotyping data from 300,000 SNPs, and our analysis included 35,808 individuals. We found a moderate positive association between genome-wide homozygosity and height, consistent with previous studies. Our findings suggest that genome-wide homozygosity may contribute to height variation, particularly in populations with limited recent population expansion.
The study of blood monocyte (MO) subsets during malaria infection in humans is a complex and challenging task. In this study, we have examined the MO subsets in 76 patients with acute uncomplicated malaria in a Thai-Burmese border area. We found that the proportion of pro-inflammatory MO was higher in Group 1 patients compared to that of Group 2 patients. The ADCI activity of pro-inflammatory MO in Group 1 was also higher, but they were less effective in parasite growth inhibition. The study provides important information for understanding the pathogenesis of malaria infection and may help in the development of new therapeutic strategies.
This study found that S . mansoni infection is associated with increased frequencies of CD4+ T cells in the blood that are known to be highly susceptible to HIV infection. However, there were no significant differences in the frequency of these T cells in the foreskin, the primary site of HIV acquisition. These findings suggest that S . mansoni infection may increase the number of susceptible T cells in the blood but not in the foreskin, where HIV is most likely to be acquired.
Wolbachia, a common endosymbiont found in many invertebrates, including filarial nematodes, has been shown to inhibit apoptosis in the larval and adult stages of the nematode. This effect is not cell-autonomous, meaning that it extends beyond the cells that harbor the Wolbachia and into other cells in the same organism. The anti-apoptotic effects of Wolbachia may contribute to the long-term sterilization of adult female worms, as well as the cessation of embryogenesis in microfilariae and the development of intrauterine 'stretched' microfilariae. This may help to explain some of the observed anti-filarial effects of antibiotic depletion of Wolbachia from filarial nematodes, which have been shown to be associated with long-term sterilization and the cessation of microfilariae production. The exact mechanism by which Wolbachia inhibits apoptosis in the nematode is not yet fully understood, but is likely to be a complex process involving interactions between the Wolbachia and host cells. Further research into this area may lead to new therapeutic targets for the control of filarial nematodes.
The PfPanK1 gene encodes a PanK protein that is essential for the survival of Plasmodium falciparum parasites during the intraerythrocytic stage. In the present study, we generated a collection of parasite clones that were resistant to PanOH and CJ-15 , 801. We found that the mutations in PfPanK1 responsible for this resistance were located at amino acid residues 507 and 95. These mutations affected the structure and function of the PfPanK1 protein, with the former alteration resulting in a loss of normal enzyme activity, while the latter resulted in a loss of affinity for pantothenate. This reduced affinity allowed the mutant parasite clones to survive at higher concentrations of the drugs, which was reflected by their increased resistance. These results confirm that PfPanK1 is the active pantothenate kinase in the asexual blood stage of P . falciparum, and provide insight into the mechanism of action of these two drugs.
We identified an association signal at the locus SCN5A in African Americans with PR interval duration. We also found other signals at loci in other populations. These associations suggest a common genetic basis for PR interval variability across populations.
This work examines the roles of the host protein TOM1 and its homologue ARL8 in regulating the replication of positive-strand RNA viruses. These proteins interact with the helicase-like domain of the viral replication protein 130K, promoting its guanylylation activity and enhancing the efficiency of negative-strand RNA synthesis. The authors suggest that TOM1 and ARL8 play important roles in preventing unwanted activation of the replication machinery and ensuring the proper localization of the replication complexes.
The inhibition of olfactory input is necessary for sparse coding to ensure that memory representations are not overwhelmed. Two types of inhibitory circuits, feedback and feedforward, have been proposed. We developed two models of the olfactory system with these two inhibitory circuits and tested their performance in odor discrimination and sparse coding. We found that both circuits performed similarly in these tasks. However, the phase relationship between the cells in the olfactory system differed between the two circuits. The FB circuit generated a linear phase relationship, while the FF circuit generated a nonlinear phase relationship. These differences could be important for downstream processing of the olfactory information.
We developed a new real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay for the detection of rabies virus RNA in a variety of samples. The test, called "combo RT-qPCR", combines two separate reactions: one for the detection of rabies virus A (RABV) and another for the detection of all other lyssaviruses (pan-lyssa). The test was evaluated using a large number of samples from different animal species and human patients, and demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of RABV in brain and skin samples, and of all lyssavirus species in brain samples. The test was also evaluated in field settings and was found to be reliable and accurate. Overall, the combo RT-qPCR test is a valuable addition to the current toolkit for the diagnosis of rabies.
The study was conducted in the Eastern Region of Ghana and aimed to evaluate the efficacy of insecticide-treated mosquito nets (ITN) in controlling tsetse flies and reducing the risk of African animal trypanosomiasis (AAT). The study found that the use of ITN led to a significant reduction in the tsetse fly population and a decrease in the prevalence of trypanosome infections in pigs. The study also demonstrated that the use of ITN was user-friendly and could be easily implemented by farmers.
This article aims to provide a lay summary of the study by Shamseer et al., which assessed the current status of reproducibility and transparency in biomedical research. The study used a random sample of 500 articles published between 2000 and 2014 and found that only 26.3% of the articles included information on funding, 34.6% were publically funded, 3.1% were replicated, 6.2% did not have a statement of conflict of interest, and 59.0% of the articles in the clinical medicine journal category did not mention funding. The authors of the study argue that these indicators are important to monitor and that replication efforts are needed to ensure that the results of biomedical research are reliable.
This study has focused on understanding the early events of pulmonary pneumonia caused by Yersinia pestis. The authors have identified two key host cell types that are targeted by Y. pestis during the early stages of infection: neutrophils and alveolar macrophages. They have demonstrated that Y. pestis initially targets alveolar macrophages, which are important for its proliferation and survival in the lung. However, as the infection progresses, Y. pestis switches its target to neutrophils, which are important for controlling the infection. They have also shown that depletion of neutrophils does not lead to increased bacterial growth, indicating that the role of neutrophils in controlling the infection is not related to their ability to kill the bacteria. Instead, neutrophils are likely to be important for activating the immune system and triggering an inflammatory response. This study provides important insights into the early events of pneumonic plague and the roles of different host cell types in controlling the infection.
This study aimed to evaluate the serological tests used to diagnose L. infantum infection in an urban population in Brazil. The study included 117 participants from a cohort study who were diagnosed with L. infantum infection by molecular tests. The results showed that the sensitivity of the L. infantum antigen in ELISA was low (41.1%), but the specificity was high (97.2%). The sensitivity of the L. amazonensis antigen in ELISA was low (49.6%), and the specificity was also high (95.2%). The sensitivity of the rK39 antigen in ELISA was low (26.5%), but the specificity was high (73.7%). The specificity of the L. infantum antigen in ELISA was low (69.8%), and the sensitivity was high (80.4%). The sensitivity and specificity of the L. infantum antigen in ELISA were low (69.8% and 60.4% respectively) when compared to molecular tests. Therefore, it was concluded that molecular tests are more accurate in diagnosing L. infantum infection in asymptomatic individuals.
This study provides a computational approach to identify and annotate repetitive element transcriptional changes in response to developmental and genetic perturbations. We show that this approach can be used to identify differentially expressed retrotransposons in response to Dnmt knockdown in ES cells, as well as changes in retrotransposon expression in response to Eset overexpression and Hdac1 knockdown in ES cells. We also use this approach to identify differentially expressed LINE-1 elements in Hdac1 knockdown ES cells, and differentially expressed RLTR45 elements in Eset overexpression ES cells. Our study provides a framework for how computational approaches can be used to identify and annotate changes in the transcriptional expression of repetitive elements in response to developmental and genetic perturbations.
We show that bHLH transcription factors CIB1, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5 form complexes with each other in a light-dependent manner. CIB1 can heterodimerize with CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5, and all of these bHLH proteins can bind to the non-canonical E-box element of the FT promoter, which is essential for flowering initiation in Arabidopsis. The bHLH proteins CIB1 and CIB4 can also form complexes with the light-sensing protein CRY2, and this complex promotes flowering. These findings suggest that bHLH transcription factors may form complexes with other bHLH proteins or light-sensing proteins to regulate plant developmental processes in response to light signals.
Intestinal parasites are common infections among refugees coming to the United States from countries with endemic infections. The four most common intestinal parasites are hookworm, Trichuris, Strongyloides, and Ascaris. These parasites can cause serious health problems, such as anemia, malnutrition, and decreased quality of life. The cost of treating these parasites can be high, especially in the United States, where diagnostic tests and drugs are expensive. Currently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that refugees receive presumptive treatment for intestinal parasites before they arrive in the United States. However, the effectiveness of this recommendation is uncertain, as there is little data on the prevalence of intestinal parasites in refugees coming to the United States and on the efficacy of presumptive treatment. To address these uncertainties, we conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis to determine the best approach for treating intestinal parasites in refugees coming to the United States. Our analysis found that presumptive treatment with albendazole and ivermectin is the most cost-effective approach, resulting in a cost of $2,219 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. This is lower than the cost of any of the other approaches, including doing nothing. Our analysis also found that the effectiveness of presumptive treatment is uncertain, and that more research is needed to determine the prevalence of intestinal parasites in refugees coming to the United States and the efficacy of presumptive treatment.
The study focuses on characterizing the microsporidian nematode pathogen, Nematocida dispar, which infects C. elegans in the head and causes neuronal and muscle degeneration. The authors used a combination of approaches, including molecular biology, microscopy, and genetics, to investigate the pathogenesis and tissue tropism of N. dispar. They found that N. dispar causes neuronal degeneration, is released from the host by autolysis, and infects both neurons and muscle cells. They also discovered a new group of genes in N. dispar that are expanded in comparison to other microsporidians, which may contribute to its ability to infect multiple cell types. The authors' findings provide valuable insights into the pathogenesis and tissue tropism of N. dispar and have implications for understanding the complex interactions between microsporidian nematodes and their hosts.
This article describes the study of the association between the human protein Cockayne syndrome B (CSB) and the histone chaperone proteins NAP1L1 and NAP1L4. The authors used a combination of in vitro and in vivo assays to investigate the role of these histone chaperones in CSB-mediated transcription-coupled DNA repair. They found that NAP1L1 and NAP1L4 enhance the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling activity of CSB and cooperate with CSB to promote the repair of UV-induced DNA damage. The study provides insights into the mechanism of transcription-coupled DNA repair and the role of histone chaperone proteins in this process.
The study presents an analysis of DNA methylation variability across different tissues and cell types. The authors used DNA methylation data from 90 fibroblasts, 61 T-cells, 111 immortalized B-cells, 58 deceased glia, and 58 deceased neurons to identify variable methylation regions (VMRs). The authors found that VMRs are present in all tissues and cell types, but that the number and size of VMRs vary across tissues and cell types. They also found that VMRs tend to be located near gene promoters and that they are associated with genetic variants, transcription factor binding sites, and regulatory elements. The authors suggest that VMRs may play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression.
The Dengue Early Rapid is a new commercial test for detecting a specific protein called non-structural protein 1 (NS1) that is produced by the dengue virus. The test can be used alone or combined with other tests to help diagnose dengue fever. The study found that the test was highly sensitive and specific, and can be used as a useful diagnostic tool for detecting dengue fever.
RNA molecules fold in vivo into specific three-dimensional shapes. Computational approaches to predict these shapes are often based on free energy minimization. These approaches can be limited by the accuracy of the RNA structure prediction algorithm, which may fail to detect certain functional motifs or structures. Additionally, in vivo folding pathways are influenced by factors beyond thermodynamic considerations, such as the presence of other molecules in the cell. To address these limitations, we developed a new approach called Transat. Transat predicts conserved RNA helices from multiple sequence alignments of homologous RNA sequences. It first detects helices of high statistical significance, and then ranks these helices according to their probability of being functional. Transat takes into account evolutionary information and the structure of multiple sequences, and thus can predict helices that are conserved but not yet functionally annotated. We tested Transat using a diverse set of RNA sequences, including both protein-coding and non-coding RNAs, and found that it accurately predicts helices of known functional importance. This suggests that Transat can be used to predict novel RNA functional motifs in vivo.
The plant immune system is a complex signaling network that protects the plant against pathogens. The Arabidopsis immune signaling network is a well-studied model, consisting of four signaling sectors: salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA), ethylene (ET), and phytoalexins (PAD). The network is robust and resilient, meaning that it can handle perturbations to the system and still maintain its function. The authors of this study used a combination of genetics and transcriptomics to study the Arabidopsis immune signaling network. They created mutants in each of the four signaling sectors and then studied the transcriptional response of the plant to a pathogen attack. The authors found that the network is robust and resilient, meaning that it can handle perturbations to the system and still maintain its function. They also found that each signaling sector has a specific role in the immune response, and that the different signaling sectors interact with each other in complex ways. Overall, the authors provide important insights into the structure and function of the Arabidopsis immune signaling network.
The Drosophila optic placode is a neuroepithelial field that gives rise to larval eye and optic lobe precursors. We find that the Hedgehog signaling pathway regulates Tll expression, which represses Ato expression and thereby promotes the binary cell fate decision of primary versus secondary PR precursors. Notch signaling also represses the binary cell fate decision by regulating Sens expression. Additionally, we show that Notch activity controls the binary cell fate decision by repressing Sens expression. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms regulating PR precursor subtype specification in the Drosophila optic placode.
Here, we present a comprehensive study on the antimicrobial properties of the reduced form of human defensin 1 (hBD1red) against Gram-negative bacteria, including E. coli and Staphylococcus aureus. The reduced form of hBD1red possesses both antibacterial activity and the formation of nets that trap bacteria. The nets can prevent bacterial translocation, which is relevant in various diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, periodontitis, and oral infections. The antibacterial activity of hBD1red is attributed to its ability to disrupt bacterial membranes. The reduced form of hBD1red also exhibits enhanced antimicrobial activity against biofilm-forming bacteria. Additionally, hBD1red can prevent bacterial translocation by forming nets, which is a multifunctional defense strategy. Our findings provide a better understanding of the antimicrobial properties of hBD1red and its relevance in various diseases.
We present data showing that the Lowe syndrome protein, OCRL1, is a recycling endosome protein that interacts with the FIP family proteins to promote endocytosis. We show that OCRL1 is essential for endocytosis in zebrafish embryos, and that its depletion causes a reduction in the number of endocytic compartments in the pronephros, the zebrafish kidney. This defect in endocytosis is also seen in human proximal tubule cells, suggesting that OCRL1 plays a general role in endocytosis. We find that OCRL1 deficiency leads to a reduction in the levels of the receptor-mediated endocytosis protein megalin, which is a major receptor for protein endocytosis. However, we cannot exclude a role for OCRL1 in the formation of the endocytic machinery. We show that the endocytic protein Rab5 is required for megalin recycling, and that Rab5 localization is defective in OCRL1-deficient embryos. We suggest that Rab5 and OCRL1 function together in the recycling endosome to promote endocytosis. We also show that the cilia protein IFT88 is required for Rab5 localization, and that its depletion leads to Rab5 mislocalization. We suggest that the defect in Rab5 localization is a consequence of cilia dysfunction, and that IFT88 may regulate Rab5 function in the recycling endosome. Our data suggest that OCRL1, Rab5, and IFT88 are important for the regulation of endocytosis, and that defects in these proteins can cause renal tubulopathies.
The study aimed to investigate the exposure status of livestock in the Kilombero river valley to Rift Valley fever (RFV) during inter-epidemic periods. The study was conducted in 44 villages in the Kilombero and Ulanga districts of Morogoro region in Tanzania. Blood samples were collected from 1680 cattle, goats, and sheep in May to August 2011, four years after the 2006/07 RVF outbreak in Tanzania. RVF antibodies were detected in 11.3% of the animals, with a significantly higher seroprevalence in animals born before and during the 2006/07 outbreak compared to those born after the outbreak. There was a linear increase in seroprevalence in post-epidemic annual cohorts, indicating a constant exposure to RVFV. The spatial distribution of seropositivity exhibited no particular pattern but rather a few hotspots. Nine inhibition ELISA positive samples were also positive for RVFV IgM antibodies indicating a recent infection. The study indicates post-epidemic and recent transmission of RVFV in the Kilombero river valley.
The Golgi apparatus is a key organelle in eukaryotic cells responsible for the modification and sorting of proteins for secretion. However, its function can be compromised by a variety of factors such as osmotic stress, a condition that cells face when there is an imbalance between the concentration of solutes inside and outside the cell. In this study, the authors investigate the function of the Golgi apparatus and the role of Rab11 in osmotic stress in Trypanosoma cruzi, a parasite that causes Chagas disease. They used a combination of electron microscopy and genetic engineering to show that Rab11 is involved in the maintenance of the contractile vacuole (CV), an organelle that plays a key role in osmoregulation. They also demonstrated that Rab11 is required for the localization of the enzyme trans-sialidase (TcTS) to the CV membrane.
Rabies is a severe and often fatal disease caused by the rabies virus. It affects humans and animals. Currently, rabies is controlled through vaccination and post-exposure prophylaxis. A study published in 2017 in the Journal of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology aimed to compare the immunogenicity and safety of a new rabies vaccine regimen to a currently recommended regimen in healthy volunteers. The new regimen was a 4-site, 1-week ID regimen using a chick embryo-derived rabies vaccine (PCECV). The currently recommended regimen was a 2-site, 14-day TRC ID regimen using a human diploid cell rabies vaccine (HRV). The study found that the new regimen was non-inferior to the currently recommended regimen in terms of immunogenicity, and that it was safe and well-tolerated. The results of this study suggest that the new 4-site, 1-week ID PCECV regimen could be a valid alternative to the currently recommended 2-site, 14-day TRC HRV regimen for rabies PEP.
The human brain is a complex network of neurons and circuits that are organized in a way that allows us to perform a wide range of cognitive tasks. The brain is thought to have a dynamic architecture, which means that it changes and adapts over time. In this study, the authors used fMRI data from 77 participants to investigate the dynamic functional connectivity of the brain during attention and cognitive control tasks. They found that the brain has a unique spatiotemporal organization that allows it to engage in a wide range of cognitive processes. The authors used graph-theoretical and community detection techniques to investigate the dynamic connectivity between brain regions and found that the brain has a unique dynamic functional organization that is characterized by high temporal flexibility, high spatiotemporal diversity, and high within-community centrality. These properties allow the brain to engage in a wide range of cognitive tasks and to adapt to changes in the environment over time. The authors also found that the unique spatiotemporal organization of the brain is distinct from the organization of all other cognitive control systems in the brain, including the frontoparietal network, dorsal attention network, visual working memory network, and salience network. The authors conclude that the dynamic functional architecture of the brain is a unique and critical component of cognitive flexibility.
In this study, the authors investigated the role of VP4, a hydrophobic viral structural protein from the Simian virus 40 (SV40), in cell lysis. They demonstrated that VP4 is capable of mediating the release of SV40 virions from infected cells by directly interacting with the lipid bilayer. This suggests that VP4 may have a role in the process of virus replication and may be a potential target for the development of antiviral therapies.
This report describes an investigation of the immune response induced by a DNA vaccine against the Dengue virus (DENV) in a mouse model. The DNA vaccine encodes the NS1 protein of DENV and elicits both humoral and cellular immune responses. The humoral response involves the production of antibodies against the NS1 protein, while the cellular response involves the activation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. The study shows that both the humoral and cellular immune responses are necessary for effective protection against DENV infection. The study also suggests that the CD4+ T cell response may play a more important role in the protection against DENV infection.
The presented study investigates the expression, purification, and characterization of the protein ComR from the bacterium Streptococcus thermophilus. The protein is involved in the regulation of virulence in the bacterium and is known to form complexes with DNA and other proteins. The study provides detailed information on the production and purification of the protein, as well as the structural and functional characterization of the protein and its complexes. The results presented in the study are important for understanding the role of ComR in bacterial virulence and for developing potential therapeutic strategies against infections caused by S. thermophilus.
In this study, we have identified agonists of ELIC, a cation-selective pLGIC from E. coli. The agonists include alkylamines, aminothiols, aminoalcohols, bromoamines, diamines, and the neurotransmitter GABA. The open state of ELIC is stable for several hundred milliseconds and is characterized by a monovalent cation-conducting, voltage-gated pore. We have shown that ELIC can be reconstituted in liposomes and studied using planar lipid bilayers. Our work provides a starting point for further characterization of ELIC and the molecular mechanisms underlying its ion permeation and gating properties.
Our research provides new insights into the progression from atopic dermatitis (AD) to asthma. We demonstrate that skin-barrier defects, which are characteristic of AD, can drive the development of allergic inflammation in the lung. The signaling molecule tumor necrosis factor-like ligand (TSLP), which is overexpressed in AD skin, plays a key role in this process. We show that TSLP is necessary for the development of allergic inflammation in the lung, and that it is sufficient to predispose animals to an allergic response even in the absence of skin lesions. Our findings suggest that TSLP could be a factor linking AD and asthma.
We have described an improved pipeline for determining RNA-seq-based transcriptome annotations that are highly accurate and robust against RNA-seq data variability. Our approach uses a combination of transcriptome assembly, TSS determination, and 5′-end mapping to generate a consensus promoter region. We also describe a novel method for identifying RNA-seq-based TUs, which we term "promoter-based transcript units" (PBTUs). We demonstrate the utility of our pipeline by applying it to the T . maritima genome and identifying a set of 101 highly conserved PBTUs. These PBTUs show a strong association with ribosomal protein genes, and the transcripts encoding them are expressed under a variety of conditions. We also provide a comprehensive set of functional data for these PBTUs, including protein abundance and transcript structure information. Overall, our approach provides a powerful set of tools for studying the transcriptome and understanding the regulation of gene expression.
In this study, we used a psychophysical task to measure how the brain infers the presence or absence of a target object in the presence of distractors. The study found that the brain uses a Bayesian model to make inferences based on prior knowledge, sensory evidence, and contextual information. The study also found that the brain uses different contextual cues to make inferences about different objects.
In this study, we analyzed the impact of mutation in cooperative microbial populations and found that mutation can be both detrimental and beneficial to the survival of cooperation. We demonstrated that when a small percentage of mutants are present in a cooperative population, they can be beneficial by invading and replacing non-cooperative cells. However, when a larger percentage of mutants are present, they can be detrimental by creating resource limitations that can lead to defector-induced population collapses. We also showed that these population collapses can create a bottleneck effect that leads to increased diversity and cooperation in the surviving populations. Overall, our results suggest that mutation can be an important factor in the evolution of cooperative microbial populations.
Here we show that the opportunistic human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa can attach to and invade polarized epithelial cells by specifically targeting apoptotic cells. We propose that this process could be a way for P. aeruginosa to evade the epithelial cell barrier that normally prevents its entry. The apoptotic cell carrier might also shield P. aeruginosa from being killed by extracellular host defenses, such as antibiotics, and could facilitate its entry into deeper tissues.
In this study, the authors present data that supports the idea that the protein Hh is released from its source cells and transmitted to neighboring cells via a secreted ligand. They show that the protein Gγ1 and the protein Shf are required for the transmission of the Hh ligand, and that the activity of the Hh ligand can be enhanced by expressing a protein that regulates the biosynthesis of isoprenoids. They also show that the biosynthetic enzyme Hmgcr is required for the biosynthesis of the PGC attractant, and that its activity can be enhanced by expressing a protein that regulates the biosynthesis of isoprenoids. These findings provide important insight into the mechanisms underlying the regulation of Hh signaling and the generation of the PGC attractant.
The current study was designed to investigate the cytotoxic capacity of HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells induced by vaccination with an adenovirus-based HIV vaccine. The vaccine was shown to induce cytotoxic capacity of the HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells in vaccine recipients, which was comparable to that of LTNP. However, the cytotoxic capacity of vaccine recipients was lower than that of LTNP. The results also indicate that HLA class I alleles that are associated with non-progressive HIV infection are protective in this vaccination strategy. The current study provides evidence for the development of effective T-cell based vaccines, which may be used as a complement to antibody-based vaccine approaches.
The ability to share intentions is a key human trait that underlies our unique cultural and technological advancement. In this paper, we use a mathematical model to explore how the ability to share intentions emerged and how it is related to the advancement of culture and technology. We find that the ability to share intentions can be favorable in some circumstances, but it can also be harmful in others. When it is favorable, it can lead to rapid advancement of technology. When it is harmful, it can slow down technological advancement. We also find that the ability to share intentions can be selected against in some circumstances, and that the outcome of the competition between demes with different levels of ability to share intentions is determined by the benefits and costs of sharing intentions in a given environment.
Testicular transcriptome analysis reveals a previously unknown role for miR-34c in spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis. Loss of miR-34c and its partner miR-449 results in aberrant sperm morphology and motility, a phenotype recapitulated by siRNA-mediated inhibition of miR-34c expression. These data suggest that miR-34c is required for proper meiotic progression and the final stages of spermatogenesis.
Bacteria often produce small molecules to harm each other, and EcN is a common probiotic bacterium that makes a small molecule called Mcc. EcN’s Mcc is specific to its own strain, and it causes other bacteria to die. The Mcc produced by EcN’s close relatives, S . Typhimurium, also causes other bacteria to die. EcN’s Mcc is made up of two parts: a small molecule called MccH47 and a protein called MccM. MccM is made up of two parts: a part that recognizes and binds to MccH47, and a part that pumps MccH47 into other bacteria. The protein that recognizes and binds to MccH47 is called ClbP. The part that pumps MccH47 into other bacteria is called MchEF, which is a pump made up of two parts: MchE and MchF. The part of MchF that is inside the cell has a transmembrane domain that is used to transport MccH47 across the cell membrane. The transmembrane domain of MchF is important for the pump to work properly. The transmembrane domain of ClbP is also important for the pump to work properly. The authors used genetic engineering to remove the transmembrane domain of ClbP and showed that the pump still worked properly. They also showed that the transmembrane domain of MchF is not important for the pump to work properly. This study provides important information about how EcN produces Mcc and how the parts of the pump that make up Mcc work together.
In this study, we investigate the function of two novel UDP-Galf transporters, UXT1 and UXT2, which were recently identified in a screen of UDP-sugar transporters in C. neoformans. We find that UXT1 and UXT2 transport UDP-Galf and UDP-Xyl, but not other UDP-sugars tested. We also find that UXT1 and UXT2 are required for capsule production and are complemented by the UDP-Glc transporter UGT1. Finally, we demonstrate that UXT1 and UXT2 are crucial for virulence in a mouse model of cryptococcosis. Our study highlights the importance of UDP-sugar transporters in C. neoformans and provides insight into the role of UXT1 and UXT2 in virulence and host-pathogen interactions.
The article introduces the Global NTD Registry (GNTD) database, which provides open access to survey locations and prevalence data for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) in sub-Saharan Africa. The database covers data from 35 African countries and 568 surveys for schistosomiasis, and includes information on 25 different mollusk species. The authors emphasize the importance of sharing and accessing data for disease control and elimination efforts, and highlight the challenges of data collection, management, and sharing. They also discuss the potential of the database to support research, policy-making, and disease control efforts.
This study examined whether chronic helminth infection affects the immune response to mycobacteria. Chronic filarial infection in mice was found to reduce the immune response to mycobacteria, but not to the extent of significantly increasing mycobacterial burden. The study highlights the importance of considering the immune response to mycobacteria when designing treatments for chronic filarial infections.
Drosophila melanogaster chemosensory neurons have a distinct morphology, with a single neuron projecting to a single chemosensory bristle. The gene PPK23 is expressed in these chemosensory neurons. PPK23 expression is sexually dimorphic, with higher levels in females than males. PPK23 is required for normal male courtship behavior but not female courtship behavior. PPK23 may function as a chemosensory receptor for an unknown pheromone.
The mitochondrial genome of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii encodes 13 proteins that make up the respiratory chain complexes. One of these proteins, NADH dehydrogenase (ND4), is encoded by a mitochondrial gene that is highly variable in different plant species. In this study, the researchers used the CRISPR/Cas9 system to introduce mutations into the ND4 gene of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and examined the effects of these mutations on the growth and metabolism of the cells. They found that replacing 11 GGC/GGT codons with GGG codons in the ND4 gene had little effect on the growth or metabolism of the cells, but when 11 GGC/GGT codons were replaced with GGG codons, the cells grew more slowly, had lower rates of respiration, and had decreased levels of complex I and III activity. These results suggest that the mitochondrial genome plays an important role in regulating the activity of respiratory chain complexes in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.
This study aimed to identify new metrics of glucose dysregulation using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) to stratify individuals with prediabetes or normal glucose levels into three categories of increasing glucose variability. We found that the new metrics, such as the fraction of time in the high-glycemic range and glucose variability index, were more predictive of the risk of developing diabetes than current measures. We also found that individuals with prediabetes or normal glucose levels can exhibit severe glucose variability, which may be a result of insulin resistance and impaired insulin secretion. These findings suggest that CGM could be used to detect individuals at high risk for diabetes before they are diagnosed.
We previously showed that EDR1 negatively regulates MAPKs. Here, we further demonstrate that EDR1 directly associates with MKK4 and MKK5, and that EDR1 negatively affects the accumulation of MKK4 and MKK5 protein, leading to down-regulation of MPK3 and MPK6. We also show that over-expression of MKK4 and MKK5 leads to enhanced resistance to powdery mildew and edr1-like cell death. These results suggest that EDR1 fine-tunes the activity of the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 kinase cascade to maintain proper balance between defense and growth.
Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a serious infectious disease that can be fatal, and is transmitted by ticks. Infectious diseases are a major healthcare problem worldwide, leading to millions of deaths annually. A computational framework is needed to understand disease dynamics and make predictions for future cases, which can help policy makers make more informed decisions. In this study, the authors developed a computational framework based on Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of CCHF. They used the data set of infected case counts between years 2004 and 2015 collected by the Ministry of Health of Turkey. The results showed that the Gaussian process formulation obtained better results than two frequently used standard machine learning algorithms, random forests and boosted regression trees, under temporal, spatial, and spatiotemporal prediction scenarios. The study suggests that Gaussian processes can capture highly complex dependencies and make more reliable predictions than tree-based algorithms, making it a valuable tool for infectious disease modeling. The source code for this framework is publicly available.
We model the spread of the Rift Valley Fever virus during religious festivals in sub-Saharan Africa. The model accounts for periodic influxes of livestock from neighboring regions during festivals, an increase in their movement speed, and removal of livestock from one patch to another. We show that these factors lead to an increase in outbreak sizes and frequency. We also analyze the impact of different starting times for the preparation for the festival on the spread of the disease. We find that a shorter preparation time increases the number of infected animals, particularly in patches where the movement of animals is fast. Our results can help in designing more effective disease control measures during religious festivals in sub-Saharan Africa.
In this paper, we present a detailed analysis of the spatial and temporal trends of human cutaneous anthrax in Azerbaijan from 1984 to 2010. We used several different methods to analyze the data, including spatial and temporal clustering, segmented regression, and piecewise regression. Our findings indicate that the incidence of human anthrax decreased after the initiation of preemptive vaccination in livestock. The geographic distribution of the disease shifted eastward during this period. These findings highlight the importance of dynamic disease management in livestock using a "One Health" approach to mitigate human disease and have important implications for future surveillance and the implementation of public health interventions.
The authors use all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the binding of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) to a Shaker KV channel. They find that PUFA interactions with the channel occur at a specific site on the extracellular side of the S3-S4 linker, with the carboxylic head group interacting with specific residues and the polyunsaturated tail interacting in a non-specific fashion. They also observe a reduced conformational flexibility of the PUFA tail in the open state of the channel, compared to the closed state. These findings suggest that PUFA binding may play a role in modulating KV channel function.
A robust fluorescent Toxoplasma model system was developed to evaluate anti-parasitic activity of a medicinal chemistry optimization program. The fluorescent HCT-8 cell growth assay was validated by comparison with a cytotoxicity assay. Fourteen triazole derivatives were evaluated in the Toxoplasma model and seven were tested in the Cryptosporidium model. Compounds A103 and A110 showed exceptional potency against Cryptosporidium and were selective for parasites over host cells.
Our study shows genetic evidence for associations between several genes and tooth development. We carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of primary dentition in two large birth cohorts. In both the NFBC1966 and ALSPAC cohorts, we found several loci with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that showed strong association with two measures of tooth development in infancy: the date of first tooth eruption and the number of teeth by one year of age. The strongest associations were found for SNPs in the following genes: KCNJ2, EDA, RAD51L1, IGF2BP1 and HOXB gene cluster. A genetic variant in the HOXB gene cluster was also associated with a later requirement for orthodontic treatment. Further studies are needed to determine the functional relevance of these associations, but our study provides important evidence that tooth development is influenced by genetic factors.
These papers describe the creation and characterization of two new mouse models of trisomy 21 (Ts21) and monosomy 3q (Ms3q). These models were generated using CRISPR/Cas9 technology to create large deletions in specific regions of chromosome 21 and 3q. The authors show that Ms3q mice are viable and fertile, but have several neurological and behavioral phenotypes, including ataxia, tremors, and reduced lifespan. Ts21 mice are also viable and fertile, but have a wide range of phenotypes, including facial abnormalities, reduced lifespan, and heart defects. The authors also demonstrate that the phenotypes in these models are caused by specific genes located in the deleted regions, and not by global chromosomal imbalances. This work provides important new tools for studying the effects of specific genes and regions of chromosomes on development and function in vivo.
Our work has identified the minimum stoichiometry of GIRK1/2 channels and GαGDP available for the complex in the plasma membrane of Xenopus oocytes. We show that excess GαGDP and Gβγ are recruited to the PM by GIRK1/2. These findings are in agreement with previous studies in HEK293 cells and neurons. The results provide important information regarding the structure and function of the GIRK1/2 channel, and may provide a basis for rational design of drugs targeting this important ion channel.
We developed a new approach to predict TALE target genes, called PrediTALE. TALE genes are found in Xanthomonas bacteria that infect many plant species. PrediTALE is based on the RVD (repeat variable di-nucleotide) sequence of TALE genes, which encodes the binding site for the TALE protein. PrediTALE is able to predict TALE target genes with higher accuracy than previous approaches. We also developed a software package called DerTALE, which includes both PrediTALE and an RNA-seq data analysis tool. We tested our methods by predicting TALE targets in plant genomes infected by Xanthomonas bacteria, and then validating these predictions using RNA-seq data. Our results demonstrate that PrediTALE and DerTALE are powerful tools for predicting TALE targets and understanding the mechanisms of Xanthomonas-plant interactions.
We describe how to evaluate the pathogenicity of mitochondrial variants using a computational tool called APOGEE (pAthogenicity Prediction thrOugh loGistic model trEe). This tool is specifically designed for mitochondrial proteins and variants and offers a transparent, reproducible, and easy-to-understand evaluation. The tool combines the logistic regression models with tree induction resulting in a single tree. The choice of APOGEE was driven by our intent to offer a transparent classifier, finely tuned on mitochondrial variants and that gives reproducible and easy-to-understand results. To validate the tool, we compared its predictions to the predictions of a number of other computational predictors. We also evaluated the tool on two independent test sets.
Dengue virus (DENV) is a major public health concern worldwide. DENV-induced hemorrhage is a severe complication of dengue infection. Hemorrhage is caused by platelet activation, aggregation, and adhesion to vascular endothelium. Platelet adhesion and activation are induced by direct infection with DENV or by interaction with antibodies against DENV. This study reveals that dengue NS1 protein activates platelets via a toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-dependent pathway. DENV NS1 binds to platelets and induces platelet activation, aggregation, and adhesion to vascular endothelium. DENV NS1 also induces platelet aggregation via the ADP receptor P2Y12. This study provides a new insight into the pathogenesis of dengue infection and may facilitate the development of new therapeutic strategies for dengue-associated hemorrhage.
We have analyzed the dynamics of the entire cardiovascular system using mathematical modeling. The system can be divided into two subsystems, which are candidate oscillators. The two systems are alternative oscillators, with the same control function, but different physiological mechanisms. The results of the loop analysis of the two systems are qualitatively equivalent. The system in Fig 1 is an example of a dynamic system consisting of two candidate oscillators, which can be described by a set of differential equations with a single equilibrium point. If the system becomes unstable, persistent oscillations occur. By decomposing the system into two subsystems, we can obtain an efficient computational method based on the negative feedback loop of a monotone system. These findings can help us understand the cardiovascular system better and guide the development of new therapeutic strategies.
In this paper, we present a novel mechanism to limit the growth of small asymptomatic thrombi. We propose that the fibrin network overlaying the thrombus restricts thrombin diffusion from the thrombus core to the thrombus surface, thereby preventing platelets in flowing blood from contacting the thrombus surface. Our hemodynamics model of a thrombus with a permeable fibrin network shows that the local concentration of thrombin near the thrombus surface is insufficient to activate resting platelets in flowing blood, thus limiting continued thrombus growth. Our findings support the idea that fibrin networks overlying small thrombi can prevent them from growing into dangerous emboli.
In this manuscript, the authors study the role of the innate immune cell subset invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells in host defense against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. They find that iNKT cells play a critical role in controlling bacterial growth, independent of T cell activation by Mtb. They demonstrate that GM-CSF, a cytokine produced by iNKT cells, plays a crucial role in host defense against Mtb infection. They also find that CD1d, a co-stimulatory receptor required for iNKT cell activation, is not necessary for iNKT cell function during Mtb infection. Their findings highlight the importance of iNKT cells in host defense against Mtb infection and provide new insights into the mechanisms of host defense against this pathogen.
The manuscript by Ames et al. provides an overview of the role of C. albicans in human disease and its impact on human health. The authors discuss the different ways in which C. albicans can cause disease, including infections of the skin, mucous membranes, and internal organs. They also describe the factors that contribute to the development of disease, including host susceptibility, environmental factors, and genetic determinants of virulence. The manuscript provides a detailed description of the different forms of C. albicans and their properties, including yeast, hyphal, and biofilm forms. The authors also discuss the strategies that are used to treat C. albicans infections, including antifungal drugs, immunomodulatory therapies, and surgical interventions. The manuscript provides an overview of the current knowledge on the molecular mechanisms that underlie C. albicans pathogenesis and virulence, including adherence to host cells, immune evasion, and persistence within host tissues. The authors also discuss the different approaches that are used to study C. albicans pathogenesis, including animal models, in vitro cultures, and genetic and molecular analyses. Overall, the manuscript provides a comprehensive overview of C. albicans pathogenesis and its impact on human health.
We have described the role of CD11c+ DCs and macrophages in antigen persistence and the development of effector CD8+ T cell responses following immunization with irradiated sporozoites.
In this study, we prepared and characterized nanoparticles (NPs) coated with the antimicrobial peptide polymyxin B sulphate (polB) for the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis. NPs were synthesized by electrostatic adsorption of polB on the surface of anionic polybutadiene nanoparticles (PBCAnp) formed by emulsion polymerization. The nanoparticles were characterized by dynamic light scattering (DLS), Zeta potential, nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The results showed that the nanoparticles had an average size of 213 nm, a polydispersity index of less than 0.3, and a Zeta potential of -1.79 ± 0.17 mV. The nanoparticles also had a high drug incorporation efficiency (up to 885 μg/mL of polB) and a sustained release profile. The antileishmanial activity of the nanoparticles was tested in vitro against promastigotes of Leishmania amazonensis, and the results showed that the nanoparticles had a 6.0-fold increase in antileishmanial activity compared to free polB. The antibacterial activity of the nanoparticles was also tested against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Escherichia coli, and the results showed that the nanoparticles had a 2.0-fold increase in antibacterial activity compared to free polB. In addition, the nanoparticles did not show any cytotoxicity to macrophages, indicating that they may be safe for use in therapeutics. Overall, these results suggest that PBCAnp-polB may be a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis and concomitant bacterial infections.
The study aimed to identify factors associated with death from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using data from a historical cohort of patients with VL from Belo Horizonte, Brazil, from 2007 to 2009. The findings suggest that age, bleeding, other associated infections, jaundice, and Leishmania-HIV co-infection are associated with a higher risk of death from VL. The study also identified a prognosis score based on four clinical variables, including age, bleeding, other associated infections, and jaundice, which can be used to help identify patients with VL who are at higher risk of death.
The results of this study indicate that the two RD PRRs EFR and FLS2 interact with the regulatory RLK BAK1, which is a non-RD PRR, in a manner independent of their kinase activity. We found that the kinase activity of EFR and FLS2 is weak and that of BAK1 is negligible. In addition, the results suggest that EFR and FLS2 do not require BAK1 to form complexes after recognition of the ligands elf18 and flg22. However, the binding of EFR and FLS2 to BAK1 is dependent on the binding of EFR and FLS2 to each other. This suggests that EFR and FLS2 form a complex before recognizing the ligands and that BAK1 then binds to this complex. Our data suggest that BAK1 plays a role in EFR and FLS2 signalling by modulating the strength of the EFR and FLS2-EFR interactions. This study provides further evidence for the importance of non-RD PRRs in the recognition of microbial pathogens and the initiation of plant defence responses.
The paper proposes a novel method for simulating the effects of anticancer treatments on cancer cell populations in vitro and in vivo. The method is based on a multi-phase, asynchronous cell cycle model that includes cell cycle checkpoints, quiescence, and cell death. The model can be customized to simulate different types of cancer and anticancer treatments, and can be used to predict the effects of these treatments on cancer cell populations. The paper also provides a user interface for building and running the simulation model, as well as sample data and code for performing the simulation.
We previously found that mice with a missense mutation in Pdss2, a subunit of the mitochondrial electron transport chain complex II, have renal disease characterized by proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis, and tubulointerstitial fibrosis . This disease is associated with an accumulation of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial dysfunction, which causes a loss of energy for cellular processes. In the current study, we aimed to determine the molecular mechanisms responsible for the renal disease caused by the Pdss2 mutation. We used conditional knockout mice to specifically target the kidney with the Pdss2loxP/loxP allele. Conditional knockout mice were bred with mice expressing Cre recombinase under the control of the podocyte-specific promoter Nphs2 or the liver-specific promoter Alb. The Nphs2-Cre mice expressed Cre recombinase in podocytes, whereas the Alb-Cre mice expressed Cre recombinase in hepatocytes. The Pdss2loxP/loxP allele was then recombined in either podocytes or hepatocytes, leading to the deletion of Pdss2 in those cells. We found that the Nphs2-Cre mice had renal disease with proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis, and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, whereas the Alb-Cre mice did not have kidney disease. We then compared the renal disease caused by the Pdss2loxP/loxP mutation with the disease caused by the Pdss2kd/kd mutation, which has a missense mutation in a different part of the Pdss2 protein. We found that the two mutations had similar effects on renal disease, although the Pdss2kd/kd mutation was less severe. We then compared the two mutations in terms of mitochondrial function. We found that both mutations had a similar effect on mitochondrial function, with an accumulation of reactive oxygen species and a decrease in the activity of complexes I and II of the electron transport chain. However, the Pdss2kd/kd mutation had a more severe effect on mitochondrial function than the Pdss2loxP/loxP mutation. We then used expression microarray analysis to compare the two mutations in terms of gene expression. We found that the two mutations had a similar effect on gene expression, with an increase in the expression of genes involved in oxidative stress and a decrease in the expression of genes involved in energy metabolism. However, the Pdss2kd/kd mutation had a more severe effect on gene expression than the Pdss2loxP/loxP mutation. Overall, our study suggests that the renal disease caused by the Pdss2 mutation is due to mitochondrial dysfunction and that the Pdss2kd/kd mutation has a more severe effect on mitochondrial function and gene expression than the Pdss2loxP/loxP mutation.
To understand the complexity of development, researchers have studied lineages, the evolutionary history of a group of related cells, in deterministic organisms such as C. elegans, P. marina, and H. roretzi. The authors found that all three organisms have a few features in common: they have low cell death rates, short maximum depths, low lineal topologies, and high clonality of cell types. These features increase lineage robustness, which the authors define as the ability of a lineage to maintain normal development in the presence of stochastic processes. The authors also found that lineage robustness is associated with fitness, which is a measure of how well a lineage performs its function in a given environment. They conclude that lineage robustness is a key feature of development and that it is conserved across different organisms.
EmbryoPhenomics is a platform for the automated study of embryonic development. It includes a microscope that can record the movement and shape of large numbers of embryos over time, and software that can extract measurements from these videos. The platform was used to study the response of two different species of aquatic embryos to various environmental stresses. The results showed that EmbryoPhenomics can accurately measure the response of embryos to these stresses, and can be used to study the complex interactions between different stresses.
In this study, we used stable isotope labelling and metabolomics to investigate the role of central carbon metabolism in different stages of the rodent malaria parasite Plasmodium berghei. We found that glucose is the major carbon source for all stages, while glutamine is the major driver of TCA metabolism, crucial to the development of the ookinete stage and ookinete to oocyst transition. Both intermediary carbon metabolism and CoA synthesis are also important for ookinete to oocyst transition with a possible role in oocyst sporogony. Our findings highlight the importance of central carbon metabolism in the malaria parasite, particularly in the transmission stages, which could be exploited for drug discovery and development.
In this study, we have analyzed the information processing capabilities of incoherent feedforward loops (IFFLs) in the presence of oscillatory signals. We have shown that the IFFL is capable of processing oscillatory signals and distinguishing between pulsing and sustained signals by utilizing its characteristic of temporal adaptation in response to sustained input. We have also provided numerical simulations and a range of conditions for which counting can be maintained. These results suggest that IFFLs may be useful for information decoding in natural systems and could be used in the design of synthetic gene circuits.
The study presents a detailed characterization of O . tsutsugamushi growth in cultured cells and the effects of different purification methods on bacterial viability. The study found that O . tsutsugamushi is an obligate intracellular bacterium that grows well in host cells such as mouse fibroblasts and human epithelial cells. The study also found that different methods of host cell lysis and purification, such as vortexing, bullet blender, and centrifugation, have varying degrees of effectiveness in removing bacteria from their host cells while preserving their viability. The study provides useful information for future research on this important neglected human pathogen.
This study aimed to determine the safety and efficacy of the standard dose of praziquantel (40 mg/kg) for the treatment of schistosomiasis in children aged 1–5 years old. The study included 104 children aged 1–5 years old and 435 children aged 6–10 years old from three villages in Zimbabwe. The study found that the standard dose of praziquantel was safe and efficacious in children aged 1–5 years old. Side effects were minimal, and there were no reports of severe adverse reactions. The efficacy of the standard dose of praziquantel was similar in children aged 1–5 years old and 6–10 years old, with egg reduction rates of 99% and cure rates of 92% and 96% respectively. The study provides important information for the safe and effective treatment of schistosomiasis in young children.
In this study, the authors performed an RNAi screen in Drosophila melanogaster to identify tumor suppressor genes that are functionally important in preventing KRAS-induced epithelial cell transformation. They identified 80 candidate genes that are involved in various cellular processes including cell adhesion, cell polarity, signaling, and metabolism. The authors found that the candidate genes are important for maintaining normal epithelial cell morphology and preventing KRAS-induced epithelial cell transformation. They also showed that the candidate genes are important for maintaining cell polarity and cell adhesion, and preventing the activation of EGFR signaling.
In this study, the authors investigated whether the evolution of Sp wtf13 and Sk wtf13 antifungal peptide genes was driven by the recombination of Sp wtf18 and Sk wtf18 homologs. The authors generated a library of Sp wtf13 mutations and determined their fitness, as measured by colony size and growth rate, in the presence and absence of Sp wtf18. They also generated a library of Sk wtf13 mutations and determined their fitness in the presence and absence of Sk wtf18. The authors found that Sp wtf13 mutations that disrupted the antifungal activity of the protein were not fitness impaired in the presence of Sp wtf18, suggesting that Sp wtf18 provided a functional complement to Sp wtf13. They also found that Sk wtf13 mutations that disrupted the antifungal activity of the protein were fitness impaired in the presence of Sk wtf18, suggesting that Sk wtf18 provided a functional complement to Sk wtf13. These results indicate that Sp wtf13 and Sk wtf13 antifungal peptide genes were not driven by recombination with Sp wtf18 or Sk wtf18 homologs.
In this study, we develop a new approach to predict gene expression variation from genotype data. We show that combining information from multiple SNPs in the local vicinity of the predicted gene can increase the robustness of gene expression predictions. The algorithm we propose uses a K-nearest neighbor (KNN) approach that assigns different weights to the SNPs depending on their distance from the predicted gene and their genomic annotations. We extend the KNN model by incorporating heterogeneous sources of genomic annotations and show that this extension further improves the robustness of gene expression predictions. We also evaluate the effectiveness of different genomic annotations for predicting gene expression variation and show that certain SNP features, such as proximity to the transcription start or end sites, high regional G/C content, and presence within microRNA or transcription factor binding sites, have higher predictive power. Our approach provides a new tool for predicting gene expression variation and can help identify the SNPs that are most likely to affect gene expression.
In this study, we used mathematical modeling and Bayesian inference to investigate the mechanisms underlying competitive suppression in Plasmodium chabaudi infections of immunocompromised mice. We found that the simplest model, with a single mechanism of competitive suppression, did not fit the data well. However, a more complex model, with multiple mechanisms of competitive suppression, provided a good fit to the data. We found that the most likely mechanism of competitive suppression is clone-specific differences in the immune response to P. chabaudi. Specifically, the immune response of nude mice, which are deficient in T cells, is weaker against the avirulent AS clone than the virulent AJ clone. This results in weaker clearance of AJ parasites from the bloodstream in mixed infections compared to single infections of the AJ clone alone. This is because the AJ clone competitively suppresses the AS clone, and the immune response against AJ parasites is stronger in wildtype mice, which have a functional T cell response, compared to nude mice. Our results suggest that the immune response plays an important role in determining the outcome of mixed P. chabaudi infections in immunocompromised mice.
We present evidence that inverted duplications of a small region on human chromosome 17p can arise from a rare replication error. We show that a circular intermediate in the process of replication can arise from a single fork reversal at the site of short interrupted inverted repeats. This intermediate can be stably maintained by replication fork reversal and can be extruded to form an inverted dimeric plasmid in yeast. The origin of replication in the URA3-ARS1 fragment is required for this process to occur. This study provides evidence for the ODIRA model and highlights its role in generating inverted triplications and DUP-TRP/INV-DUP CNVs in humans.
The study aimed to investigate translation initiation during influenza virus infection. The authors analyzed ribosome profiling data of influenza-infected A549 cells, interferon-β-treated A549 cells, and interferon-β-treated A549 cells that were subsequently infected with influenza virus. The study identified 14 high-confidence translation initiation sites in influenza virus, including seven canonical translation initiation sites and two previously identified non-canonical translation initiation sites. The authors also identified candidate novel N-terminal truncations in NA, PB1, NP, and PA. The authors validated one of the new alternate start sites by showing that the corresponding protein was produced even in the presence of the canonical start site. The study provides a comprehensive characterization of translation initiation during influenza virus infection and sheds light on the evolutionary pressures that have shaped influenza virus translation initiation.
The authors investigate the role of NleH1 and NleH2, two proteins from the effector repertoire of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC), in host cell entry. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation, co-immunoprecipitation, bioluminescence complementation, and Western blotting, the authors found that NleH1 and NleH2 bind to the host cell receptor RPS3. They also found that NleH1 and NleH2 are sufficient to mediate STEC translocation into host cells. Additionally, the authors identified a domain in NleH1 necessary for NleH1-RPS3 binding. Finally, they observed that RPS3 is translocated to the nucleus in response to NleH1 and NleH2, and that this translocation is required for NleH1-RPS3 binding. Taken together, these findings suggest that NleH1 and NleH2 are important mediators of STEC translocation into host cells.
We present a novel framework to represent and find motifs of transcription factors binding to DNA. Our framework is based on the concept of feature-based models, and includes an algorithm for learning the model parameters. We also present an algorithm for finding the optimal motifs that are enriched in a target set of unaligned sequences compared to a background set. We apply our framework to find motifs for two human transcription factors, c-Myc and CTCF, which are known to have binding specificities that cannot be properly represented by the standard PSSM model. Our analysis shows that our framework is able to capture the intricate dependencies between positions that are present in these TF binding specificities, and provides interesting biological insights into the binding mechanisms of these transcription factors.
This study investigates the evolution of the ADRA2C gene in humans, chimpanzees, and macaques. The authors found evidence of selection on the ADRA2C gene and identified a regulatory region, DHS2, that is important for its expression. The DHS2 region was found to be conserved in primates, and the authors used functional assays to confirm that this region contains binding sites for the NRSF transcription factor, which may explain the evolutionary conservation of this region. The authors also found that a mutation in the NRSF binding sites could enhance the expression of ADRA2C in a human cell line.
Comparison of gene expression in leaves of two distantly related C4 plant species, the dicotyledonous Cleome gynandra and monocotyledonous maize, revealed similarities in global patterns of gene expression associated with photosynthesis and leaf development. This includes conserved expression of photosynthesis genes between these species as well as transcription factors important for regulating C4 photosynthesis and leaf development. In addition to global similarities , we found that M and BS cells of C . gynandra and maize show significant differences in gene expression. Finally , we identified a small set of transcription factors that are differentially expressed in M and BS cells and that are specifically expressed in each cell type in both species. This suggests that these transcription factors may play important roles in regulating the specialised function of each cell type. Overall our data provide insights into the mechanisms underlying photosynthesis and leaf development in C4 plants and highlight the importance of cell specialisation in these processes.
The Ebola virus (EBOV) caused a large epidemic in West Africa in 2013–2016. Several patients with the disease were brought to Europe and North America, leading to outbreaks in these areas. It is important to understand the patterns of EBOV infection in different parts of the body, so that new countermeasures can be developed. In this study, the authors looked at the persistence of EBOV-specific negative sense genomic RNA (neg-RNA) and positive sense RNA (pos-RNA), including both replication intermediate (antigenomic-RNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules, in the upper and lower respiratory tract of a Health Care Worker (HCW) infected with EBOV in Sierra Leone. They found that viral replication and shedding occurred in the respiratory tract, even after viral clearance from plasma. The results suggest that EBOV could cause lung damage, and that the respiratory tract may play a role in the human-to-human transmission of the virus. Further research is needed to understand the clinical significance of viral replication and shedding in the respiratory tract, and its potential contribution to the spread of the virus.
We previously rescued a rMACV virus expressing the Cd#1 GPC ectodomain by reverse genetics and showed that the rMACV/Cd#1-GPC is partially attenuated in our IFN-αβ/γ R-/- mouse model. In the present study, we further engineered the viruses to replace the entire MACV GPC with that of Cd#1. We demonstrated that the rMACV/Cd#1-GPC and its genetic variants, MCg1, MCg2 and MCg3 are highly attenuated in our mouse model and these viruses are not detectable in the organs of infected animals. Furthermore, the rMACV/Cd#1-GPC induced higher titers of neutralizing antibody against rMACV than MCg1, suggesting that other domains of Cd#1 GPC besides the ectodomain might also contribute to the higher level of attenuation rMACV/Cd#1-GPC in the animal model. Finally, we showed that MCg1 could induce protective immune response as measured by the production of rMACV-specific IgG and the neutralizing antibody response, however, additional testing in fully immunocompetent hosts is needed. Our findings suggest that the ectodomain of Cd#1 GPC alone is not sufficient for complete attenuation of rMACV, and that the other domains of Cd#1 GPC might also contribute to the attenuation. This information could be useful for the development of vaccine candidates against MACV and other New World arenaviruses.
This article describes the generation of haploid inducing mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana CENH3/CENP-A and their application in crop species. The authors screened for mutations in a region of the CENH3/CENP-A that is conserved in angiosperms and found that mutations in this region can lead to haploid induction in Arabidopsis. They further demonstrated that these mutations can be used to induce haploid induction in other crop species. The authors also discussed the potential applications of haploid induction in crop species, such as the ability to rapidly map and breed crops.
In this study, we used a comprehensive computational approach to examine alternative splicing (AS) of messenger RNA transcripts in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and cardiomyocytes (CPs). We identified AS events that are differentially regulated between these lineages and are predicted to alter protein domains, motifs, and miRNA binding sites. By analyzing the data, we observed global trends, such as the association of AS with gene expression changes and the coordinated regulation of protein domains and miRNA binding sites. We also confirmed AS of several previously implicated genes, including NUMB, MADD, and PKM2. Our findings may help elucidate the mechanisms of cardiac and neural lineage commitment and provide targets for the development of new therapies for cardiac disease.
We have previously shown that M. tuberculosis can survive in mice even when all trehalose biosynthesis is eliminated. We have now shown that this is possible through upregulation of TreX, an alternative trehalose biosynthesis pathway. We have also shown that TreX is upregulated in response to both ATc and M1P, which indicates that it is a general stress response. We have furthermore demonstrated that M. tuberculosis can survive in mice when both trehalose biosynthesis pathways are knocked out, suggesting that these pathways may not be essential for M. tuberculosis survival. Overall, our results indicate that M. tuberculosis can survive in mice even when both trehalose biosynthesis pathways are knocked out, suggesting that these pathways may not be essential for M. tuberculosis survival.
The paper presents a computational approach to study the dynamics and conformational changes of Trypanosoma cruzi proline racemase (TcPR), a drug target for Chagas disease. The authors used accelerated molecular dynamics (aMD) simulation to extend the effective simulation time, to study the dynamic formation of potential interaction sites coupled with the exposure of highly conserved regions of the protein surface. The results revealed that the mitogenic properties of TcPR are likely to be associated with the exposure of conformational epitopes located around newly identified binding pockets. The authors also identified several potential B-cell binding sites in the newly identified open states, which can be used for future structure-based drug discovery.
In the study, the authors describe a novel method for generating inducible knockout (iKO) mice. They use a TIGRE (Tight inducible gene expression) locus, which is a gene locus that has been genetically engineered to be tightly regulated by a tetracycline-inducible promoter. This allows for the expression of a gene of interest to be turned on and off rapidly, and at any time in the animal's development. The authors show that the method is applicable to a variety of genes, including the ApoE gene, and can be used to model human diseases such as atherosclerosis. They also demonstrate the usefulness of the method for studying the function of a gene by switching it on and off at different times. Overall, the study provides a novel method for generating iKO mice that can be used to study the function of a gene in a variety of contexts.
Our study compared the placental response to two different strains of Trypanosoma cruzi, a parasite that causes Chagas disease and congenital infection. We used functional genomics to analyze the host response to the infection and found differences in gene expression that could be associated with congenital infection. We also analyzed parasite persistence and found that the parasite strain with stronger placental tropism had a higher parasite load. Our results suggest that the host response to T. cruzi infection plays a key role in preventing congenital infection.
This study is a follow-up to the 2002 study by Skov et al., which analyzed mosquitoes collected in 2001-2002 for the presence of SINV. The current study found 22 SINV isolates from 2001-2003, with 15 obtained in 2002 and 10 in 2003. Of the 22 isolates, 15 were from enzootic vectors, and 7 were from bridge-vectors. The study also analyzed 421 mosquitoes from 2001-2003 for the presence of SINV, with 149 Culex mosquitoes, 149 Aedes mosquitoes, 10 Ceratitis mosquitoes, and 13 other species. The study found 2190 nucleotides or 730 amino acids of the total structural proteins and observed differences from prototype SINV at 189 positions, with unique changes at 125 aa. The study also analyzed 22 SINV isolates of this study and 4 isolates reported from an outbreak in 2002 which group into four clades presenting with deep branch lengths. The results suggest that increased SINV prevalence in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus and in the enzootic vectors Culex mosquitoes provide objective markers for outbreaks of SINV polyarthritis and rash in northern Europe. The study also highlights the importance of focused mosquito sampling in August and September, when SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes is at its maximum, and suggests that mosquito sampling should focus on obtaining sufficiently large samples in the late season.
This paper presents a computational model of olfactory processing in the locust brain, specifically the projection of olfactory information from the antennal lobe to the mushroom body. The model uses a simplified representation of KCs and PNs, and includes both LTP and LTD plasticity mechanisms. The main results of the paper are that LTD can be more effective than LTP for generating sparse representations, and that STDP can achieve this more efficiently than SRDP. The paper also explores the role of transient synchronization in the encoding of odor representations.
In this study, we present a novel analysis of gene expression in five different tissues from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. We identified a group of 128 genes that are highly expressed in all five tissues and are differentially expressed between patients with high and low coronary artery stenosis scores. These genes are involved in the regulation of the transcriptional modulator lysine-specific demethylase 2 (LDB2), which is a high-hierarchy regulator of the transcriptional module. The module is involved in the regulation of the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway, which is important for the development of atherosclerosis. The module also includes genes related to immune regulation, apoptosis, and cellular adhesion. Our findings suggest that the identified transcriptional module plays a role in the development of atherosclerosis and could be a useful target for therapeutic interventions.
The circadian clock regulates various cellular processes including gene expression. A mathematical model of the circadian clock was developed to understand the dynamics of the circadian clock at the molecular level. The model was tested using experimental data and was shown to be robust and accurate in predicting the circadian clock's behavior. The model has potential applications in biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, as it can be used to predict the behavior of clock-controlled genes and to design drugs that affect the circadian clock.
This study investigates the differences in HIV-2 infection patterns between non-progressors and progressors, and compares them to HIV-1 infected individuals. The study found that the HIV-2 reservoirs in non-progressors were primarily located in monocytes, while those in progressors were primarily located in central-memory CD4+ T cells. The study also found that HIV-2 infection patterns in non-progressors resembled those of SIVsm, a simian immunodeficiency virus, while progressors resembled those of HIV-1. The study suggests that HIV-2 is not adapted to infect humans and may be more susceptible to restriction factors than HIV-1.
We developed a neural model for spatial attention in macaque cortex that predicts how cells in different cortical layers respond to different stimuli. The model is based on spiking neurons and is fully implemented in a simulated cortical circuit. Using this model, we simulated three studies of spatial attention in macaques and found that the model produces quantitatively consistent results for all three studies, without any need for parameter tuning. This suggests that the model is able to capture the diversity of spatial attention effects observed in macaques.
The current study used a large sample of individuals with and without atrial fibrillation (AF) to investigate the genetic basis of AF. The study found that coding variation did not appear to be a major contributor to AF. The findings suggest that large effect coding variation is not likely to be common in AF and that efforts to identify potential therapeutic targets for AF through exome sequencing analyses will require much larger study samples. The study also found that genetic variation in pre-specified gene sets was not enriched among individuals with AF. The findings of this study have important implications for our understanding of AF pathogenesis and suggest that future studies should focus on identifying larger genetic variants, such as non-coding variants, or utilizing larger sample sizes.
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a rare but serious zoonotic disease caused by the cystic larval stage of the parasite Echinococcus multilocularis. It is endemic in some parts of the world, including Poland, where it affects mostly rural populations. The risk factors for AE include contact with dogs, particularly those that hunt game, and the consumption of raw or undercooked meat. The main clinical symptoms of AE are abdominal pain, weight loss, and jaundice. Diagnosis of AE can be challenging and requires a combination of serologic, imaging, and pathologic tests. Treatment of AE involves surgery and chemotherapy, and the prognosis depends on the stage of the disease at the time of diagnosis and the response to treatment.
In this work, the authors present the crystal structure and functional analysis of the E. coli Zur protein in complex with DNA. The authors show that Zur is a dimer of dimers that recognizes DNA through a zinc-dependent mechanism, which is mediated by four zinc atoms in each monomer. The authors also show that Zur recognizes the ZnuABC promoter and represses gene expression, and that the zinc-dependent recognition mechanism is essential for its function. The authors provide a comprehensive overview of the structure and function of Zur and the other members of the Fur family of metal-dependent regulators.
Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is a zoonotic disease that affects humans, livestock, and birds. It is endemic in sub-Saharan Africa and has caused several outbreaks in other countries, including the United States, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia. In Madagascar, RVFV has been reported in cattle in the central highlands, but no confirmed human cases have been reported. In this study, we developed a mathematical model to understand the transmission dynamics of RVFV in cattle and mosquito populations in the study area of Madagascar. The model included both vector-borne and direct transmission pathways. Using field data, we estimated the parameters of the model and compared different scenarios to explain the observed serological and seroconversion rates in cattle. We found that the most likely scenario was the introduction of RVFV in October 2007 followed by a recurrent circulation of the virus in the study area, with vector-borne transmission being the main transmission route and direct transmission playing a minor role. We also found that the persistence of the mosquito population during the dry and cold season was important for the recurrent circulation of RVFV. Our study highlights the importance of taking into account both vector-borne and direct transmission pathways when modeling the transmission dynamics of RVFV.
In this study, we conducted an analysis of the genetic structure of Aedes albopictus, a mosquito species that is currently causing outbreaks in many parts of the world. Using data from DNA samples collected from 1,044 individuals in 18 different populations, we reconstructed the historical population dynamics of Ae. albopictus and traced the origins of invasive populations in the Torres Strait Islands and the Southern Fly Region of Papua New Guinea. Our results provide new insights into the evolutionary history of Ae. albopictus and suggest that this species may have spread from Asia to Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands via the Torres Strait Islands and the Southern Fly Region. The results of our study have important implications for the management of Ae. albopictus and the prevention of the spread of dengue and other diseases transmitted by this mosquito species.
The study found that the emotional dimension of quality of life was significantly associated with schistosomiasis in children. The study also found that there was no association between the physical dimension of quality of life and any parasitic infections, anaemia, stunting, wasting or physical fitness. The study was conducted in Tanzania and included children aged 7–8 years. The researchers used the PedsQL questionnaire to assess the quality of life of the children. The PedsQL includes two dimensions: emotional and physical. The researchers collected information on parasitic infections, anaemia, stunting, wasting, physical fitness and quality of life from the children. The researchers found that the children with schistosomiasis had significantly lower scores for the emotional dimension of quality of life compared to those without schistosomiasis. The study has important implications for understanding the impact of schistosomiasis on children's quality of life.
This study investigated the natural transmission routes of Leptospira in a rat colony using different inoculation routes. The results showed that the mucosal inoculation route was more efficient than the subcutaneous inoculation route for renal colonization associated with Leptospira urinary excretion. The feces, saliva, and BAL did not appear to transmit Leptospira, as all samples tested negative for Leptospira by qPCR, although feces were previously indicated as a contaminated fluid. The renal colonization rate was significantly higher in the mucosal inoculation group, and the antibody response was considerably lower in the chronic infection group. The MAT titer was also lower in the chronic infection group, and it was significantly different from the IP and SC groups. The renal colonization rate was not significantly different from the control groups, and it was associated with urinary excretion. The mucosal inoculation route was the most effective at renal colonization associated with urinary excretion. The feces, saliva, and BAL did not appear to transmit Leptospira, and this finding is consistent with other studies. The antibody response in chronic infections was significantly lower than in acute infections, but there was no relationship between antibody production and renal colonization rate. The MAT titer was also lower in the chronic infection group, and it was significantly different from the IP and SC groups. The renal colonization rate was not significantly different from the control groups, and it was associated with urinary excretion. The mucosal inoculation route was the most effective at renal colonization associated with urinary excretion.
Anxa2 deficiency in mice exacerbates sepsis by increasing neutrophil recruitment and cytokine production. Anxa2 deficiency leads to increased oxidative stress and IL-17A production, which contributes to the exacerbation of sepsis. Anxa2 deficiency also leads to increased neutrophil recruitment and cytokine production. These findings suggest that Anxa2 may be a potential target for the treatment of sepsis.
In this study, the authors investigated the potential role of miR-155 in regulating HIV-1 infection in macrophages. They demonstrated that miR-155 expression was significantly increased by TLR3 and TLR4 stimulation, but not by TLR7 stimulation. Furthermore, they showed that miR-155 inhibition significantly enhanced the susceptibility of macrophages to HIV-1 infection, whereas overexpression of miR-155 reduced the infection rate. The authors then used a combination of in silico and in vitro approaches to identify potential HDFs targeted by miR-155, and they validated that the 3′UTRs of ADAM10, TNPO3, Nup153, and LEDGF/p75 contain target sites for miR-155. They then confirmed that miR-155 targets these HDFs, and that the combination of effects of these targets leads to the observed reduction in HIV-1 infection. These findings suggest that miR-155 is a crucial regulator of HIV-1 infection in macrophages, and that it may be a potential therapeutic target for the prevention of HIV-1 infection.
The gated convergence model is a new framework that explains the role of circadian rhythms in regulating plant growth and development. It proposes that the circadian clock gates the expression of phytohormones, which are responsible for controlling plant growth and development. This model predicts that circadian clock dysfunction would lead to changes in the expression of phytohormone genes, resulting in altered plant growth. This model provides a new perspective on the interaction between circadian rhythms and plant growth and development, and could be useful in understanding the effects of environmental factors on plant growth.
Researchers from Brazil and the United States have developed a new approach to control Chagas disease, which is transmitted by the Triatoma prolixis bug. They show that by feeding bugs with bacteria that produce RNAi, they can silence genes involved in the bug's development and reproductive capabilities. This approach has the potential to be used in other bugs that transmit diseases.
Fever is a common complication of pregnancy, especially in resource-poor settings. Malaria is the leading cause of fever in pregnant women on the western border of Thailand. This study examined the causes of fever in pregnant women in a refugee camp on the western border of Thailand. The study found that 44% of pregnant women with fever had malaria, 35% had rickettsial infection, 12% had pyelonephritis, and 8% had acute respiratory infection. Rickettsial infection was associated with low birth weight. This study highlights the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of fever in pregnant women to improve birth outcomes. The study also emphasizes the need for better diagnostic tools to accurately identify the cause of fever in pregnant women.
We have studied the relationship between maternal age at birth and recombination patterns in a large cohort of French-Canadian families. Our results show a significant decrease in recombination rates as maternal age increases, which is consistent with previous studies. However, we also observed a significant increase in recombination rates among women who had a first child at an older age. This suggests that there may be a trade-off between increasing maternal age and recombination rate. We have also identified specific regions within chromosomes where this effect is more pronounced, which may be due to variations in DNA repair mechanisms.
In this study, the authors investigated the role of STAT1 in the activation of macrophages in response to C . neoformans infection. They found that mice immunized with C . neoformans H99γ, which constitutively produces IFN-γ, had increased STAT1 expression and phosphorylation in the lungs at day 1 post-infection. The authors also found that IFN-γ and IFN-γ-induced genes were expressed at higher levels in the lungs of mice immunized with C . neoformans H99γ. They further demonstrated that macrophages from mice immunized with C . neoformans H99γ had increased STAT1 expression and phosphorylation in response to C . neoformans infection, while macrophages from naive mice did not. Finally, the authors found that STAT1 was required for the activation of macrophages in response to C . neoformans infection, as mice with STAT1-deficient macrophages had decreased IFN-γ-induced gene expression and increased susceptibility to C . neoformans infection. Together, these findings suggest that STAT1 plays an important role in the activation of macrophages in response to C . neoformans infection.
Understanding the functional mechanisms of Polycomb group (PcG) proteins in regulation of gene expression during development is of great interest in plant biology. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide analysis of H3K27me3 modification levels and target gene regulation in PcG mutants to identify the specific roles of CLF and LHP1 in H3K27me3 modification and target repression. We first developed a quantitative analysis pipeline that allows for comparisons of H3K27me3 modification levels and target gene regulation across different mutants in an unbiased manner. We then compared H3K27me3 modification levels and target gene repression in different PcG mutants, revealing that LHP1 and CLF have non-redundant roles in H3K27me3 modification and target repression. Specifically, CLF and LHP1 are preferentially involved in regulating genes with distinct target sequences, suggesting that CLF and LHP1 may function independently in regulation of distinct targets. We further identified specific transcription factors that are closely associated with the specific roles of CLF and LHP1 in H3K27me3 modification and target regulation. Finally, we concluded that CLF and LHP1 may have evolved specialized functions in the regulation of H3K27me3 modification and target gene repression, which could be important for the development of specialized tissues in plants.
The authors investigate the function of the transcription elongation complex (TEC) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by creating a library of mutations in the subunit of TEC, Rpb1, that is known to interact with the transcription factor (TF) POL II. They find that many of the mutations are lethal, and that they can be grouped into two categories: those that affect the TEC, and those that affect the TF. The authors then use the library to investigate the interaction between the TEC and TF, and find that some mutations in Rpb1 can enhance the binding of the TF to the DNA, leading to increased transcription. They also find that some mutations in Rpb1 can increase the activity of the TEC, leading to faster transcription. Overall, the authors' findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of transcription in yeast.
Rabies is a viral infection caused by the rabies virus (RV). The disease is usually transmitted through the bite of an infected animal. Once the virus enters the body, it travels to the central nervous system (CNS) using the retrograde axonal transport pathway. It is thought that the virus can also be transmitted through the hematogenous route, that is, through the bloodstream. The study presented in the article focuses on the infection of the CNS via the hematogenous route, specifically after the inoculation of the RV into the bloodstream of mice. The authors report that, although the animals inoculated with the RV through the bloodstream developed clinical symptoms of rabies, the infections did not result in lethal encephalopathies. Instead, the animals died due to other reasons, such as lack of food or social isolation. The authors also report that the virus load in the CNS of animals inoculated with RV through the hematogenous route was much lower than the load in animals inoculated with the RV through the retrograde axonal transport pathway. They also observed that the virus was not found in the CNS of animals inoculated with RV through the hematogenous route during the early stages of the disease. These findings suggest that the hematogenous route may not be a significant cause of rabies in humans.
The influenza A subtype H1N1 virus has caused substantial human mortality in the past, including during the 1918 pandemic and in subsequent years. Despite this, our understanding of its evolutionary history is still incomplete. Here, we provide the first comprehensive analysis of the evolutionary history of the H1N1 influenza virus, based on 71 complete genome sequences collected from 1918 to 2006. Our analysis reveals that intra-subtype reassortment events have played a significant role in the evolution of H1N1 influenza viruses. We find evidence for at least six major reassortment events in the past century, which resulted in the acquisition of novel gene segments and the emergence of new clades. These reassortment events have contributed to the diversity and adaptation of H1N1 influenza viruses.
The effects of nicotine on dopamine release are controversial. Two possible mechanisms have been proposed: direct activation of dopamine neurons, or disinhibition of GABA interneurons. The authors use computational modeling to test both theories. They find that direct activation of dopamine neurons accounts for in vitro nicotine effects, while disinhibition of GABA interneurons is necessary to explain in vivo nicotine effects. The authors propose that nicotine may be more likely to have disinhibitory effects in vivo due to the differential cholinergic input to dopamine neurons.
This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bipolar high-frequency electrocoagulation (EC) plus mixed wound healing (MWT) with or without the addition of 0.045% DAC N-055, a pharmaceutical preparation of chlorine dioxide, for the treatment of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Afghanistan. A total of 113 patients with CL were enrolled in the study, which was conducted at a leprosy center in Kabul, Afghanistan. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either EC plus MWT with DAC N-055 or EC plus MWT without DAC N-055. Both treatment groups received the same MWT with occlusive dressings, but the patients in the first group received in addition EC with DAC N-055. The patients in the second group received only EC without DAC N-055. The primary endpoint of the study was the time to complete healing of the lesion. Secondary endpoints included parasite load, the frequency of superinfections and relapses, and adverse events. The results of the study showed that the addition of DAC N-055 to EC/MWT significantly accelerated the healing process of CL lesions. Furthermore, the addition of DAC N-055 to EC/MWT significantly reduced the parasite load in the lesions and the number of relapses. Overall, the results of the study suggest that EC/MWT with DAC N-055 is an effective and safe treatment option for anthroponotic CL in Afghanistan.
This study investigates the role of alternative splicing in the regulation of the MAPK pathway in Drosophila. The authors find that splicing factors are required for proper MAPK signaling and that they can be divided into several groups based on their specific role in the pathway. The authors also provide evidence that alternative splicing can modulate MAPK protein levels, leading to changes in signaling. The study sheds light on the importance of alternative splicing in the regulation of the MAPK pathway and could have implications for understanding the role of this pathway in disease and development.
Cryptococcosis is a rare but potentially fatal fungal infection that can affect people with weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV/AIDS. In this study, the genetic diversity of 498 strains of Cryptococcus neoformans/C. gattii isolated from humans, animals, and the environment in Thailand was investigated. The results showed a higher genetic diversity among Thai strains than previously reported and revealed a strong linkage between clinical and environmental isolates of C. neoformans. Additionally, C. gattii isolates from Thailand were predominantly of the VGII molecular type, which is associated with a low-virulence outbreak strain in North America. The study highlights the importance of continued surveillance and molecular typing of cryptococcal infections in Thailand.
This paper investigates the evolution of DNA-binding domains in transcription factors (TFs) across Drosophila species. The authors analyze 1-to-1 orthologous TFs, which are single-copy TFs in each species, and compare their binding specificity to that of their orthologs across other Drosophila species. They find that many of these 1-to-1 orthologous TFs have divergent binding specificities, and suggest that this may be a result of the accumulation of point mutations in specificity-conferring residues. They also note that some 1-to-1 orthologous TFs have undergone transient gene duplication and loss events, which may have facilitated divergence in binding specificity. Overall, this work provides insights into the evolution of TF binding specificity and suggests that it may be more common and less dramatic than previously believed.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 1.1 million people die of diarrhea every year, with 500,000 of these deaths occurring among children under the age of 5 years. Salmonella enterica is one of the most common causes of diarrhea worldwide. Typhi and Paratyphi are two of the most common and important serotypes of Salmonella. Traditional identification of these serotypes requires culture, and a confirmatory test using a polyclonal antisera. PCR-based assays have been developed to replace serotyping. A total of 131 unique polymorphisms were identified in the CRISPR-Cas locus of 293 different strains of S. enterica serotype Typhi, and 218 strains of serotype Paratyphi A. Two CRISPR regions were found to be conserved in all isolates of serotype Typhi, and three were found to be conserved in all isolates of serotype Paratyphi A. Based on these conserved regions, PCR-based assays were developed that can differentiate between serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A. The assays were validated using 262 strains of serotype Typhi, 74 strains of serotype Paratyphi A, and 70 non-Salmonella strains. The assays were shown to be 100% specific and 100% sensitive for serotype Typhi and Paratyphi A. The CRISPR-based PCR assays developed in this study can be used as an alternative to serotyping in clinical and public health laboratories.
We show that both N1 and N2 Notch receptors are required for Th1 differentiation following L . major infection, but that N2 receptor is the only receptor that can compensate for the lack of N1 receptor. N2 receptor appears to be involved in both IL-13 and IL-5 secretion, while N1 receptor is required for IFNγ secretion.
HIV infection is more common in individuals from sub-Saharan Africa, where helminth infection is also prevalent. It has been suggested that helminth infection might increase the risk of HIV infection. To test this hypothesis directly, we infected macaques with S. mansoni and exposed them to a strain of HIV-1 adapted to macaques. We found that the minimal infectious dose of virus needed to establish systemic infection was lower in animals with schistosomiasis. This was associated with elevated viral loads and CD4+ T-cell counts, as well as an increase in the susceptibility of CD4+ central memory T cells to viral infection. These results suggest that helminth infection increases the risk of HIV-1 infection.
Cholinergic neuromodulation regulates the dynamics of neuronal networks by modulating the level of spike-frequency adaptation (SFA) and the phase response curve (PRC) of individual neurons. Different values of these modulatory factors lead to distinct types of network dynamics, including stationary and traveling waves of high frequency up- and down-states. These dynamics determine the level of synchronization and localization of neural activity within the network. We have shown that cholinergic neuromodulation plays a critical role in determining the type of dynamics observed in a network. This has implications for a variety of cognitive processes, including memory consolidation and sleep regulation.
This manuscript presents a comprehensive analysis of the prevalence and characteristics of mutations affecting the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway in Barrett's esophageal adenocarcinoma (BEA). The authors first conducted a targeted sequencing study of the TLR pathway in a large cohort of BEAs, and identified 118 unique somatic mutations affecting 17 genes within the pathway. They then used two independent data sets to assess the prevalence of these mutations in other BEA cohorts and in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). The authors found that mutations affecting the TLR pathway are common in BEA, and that they are more prevalent in patients with a history of Barrett's esophagus than in those without. They also assessed the functional impact of these mutations, and found that they are associated with reduced signaling through the TLR pathway. Finally, the authors used genetic knockout experiments to demonstrate that TLR4 is essential for tumorigenesis in a murine model of BEA. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of the TLR pathway in BEA and highlights the potential for targeting this pathway in the treatment of this disease.
The sense of taste is essential for survival and well-being, but the molecular mechanisms of taste recognition are poorly understood. Using computational and experimental methods, we identified Hes1 as a key regulator of taste cell development in the embryonic tongue epithelium. We used in silico analysis to identify common transcription factor binding sites in the promoters of five taste stimuli signaling components. The analysis yielded Hes1 as a strong candidate, which we confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. We found that Hes1 expression was downregulated in mature taste cells, suggesting that it functions as a repressor of TRCSMs in taste cell precursor cells. We also demonstrated that the number of TRCSM-positive cells was more than 5-fold greater in Hes1−/− embryos than in their wild-type littermates, indicating that Hes1 plays a role in repressing TRCSM expression in the taste cell lineage. Our results suggest that Hes1 is a common regulator of taste cell differentiation in the embryonic tongue epithelium.
In this study, the authors investigated the roles of YUC8 and OsEIL1 in rice root growth. They found that overexpression of OsEIL1 promoted root growth and that this was dependent on the expression of YUC8. They also found that OsEIL1 binds to the YUC8 promoter and that this binding is necessary for YUC8 expression. Overall, their findings suggest that the OsEIL1-YUC8 pathway plays a key role in root growth in rice.
This article is about the findings of a study on non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) diseases in Saudi Arabia. The study involved collecting and analyzing NTM isolates and clinical and demographic data from patients. The study found that rare NTM species, such as M. riyadhense, were prevalent in the country, and that patients with NTM diseases were often elderly, had diabetes, and had a history of tuberculosis. The study also found that pulmonary infections caused by NTM were more common than extrapulmonary infections. The article concludes that there is a need for further research on NTM diseases in Saudi Arabia and for the development of management plans to control the spread of NTM diseases.
The ability of yeast cells to survive prolonged periods without glucose is greatly enhanced by the accumulation of energy storage compounds such as glycogen and trehalose. These compounds are synthesized by two separate pathways, one regulated by Rim15/Gis1 and the other by Mck1, with Yak1 acting in parallel with Rim15/Gis1 to control glycogen accumulation. In addition, both Rim15/Gis1 and Mck1 regulate the accumulation of trehalose, with the latter kinase also controlling the accumulation of glycogen. The accumulation of these compounds is coordinated with the activation of the stress response by regulating anti-oxidant defence systems and the G1/S transition, thus ensuring the survival of yeast cells during the transition into quiescence.
Influenza viruses mutate rapidly to evade host immune responses. However, many of these mutations are detrimental to virus fitness. We reveal a new role for glycosylation in facilitating IAV immune evasion by compensating for the fitness costs of antigenic escape mutations. Glycosylation tunes receptor interactions, and likely serves to restore optimal receptor binding properties. These results broaden our understanding of the critical function of glycosylation during antigenic drift and shed light on the unique mutational plasticity of influenza HA.
In this study, the authors systematically investigated the relationship between action potential (AP) morphology and its rate dependence in different ventricular myocyte models, including human, canine, and guinea pig myocytes. They used a computational approach, parameter sensitivity analysis, to identify rate-dependent parameters that can influence AP morphology, and found that the effects of different perturbations on AP morphology depend on the specific parameters and the rate at which the perturbation is applied. They also found that the AP morphology of different species can vary significantly, with guinea pig myocytes having a shorter AP and larger AP plateau than human myocytes. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying rate-dependent changes in AP morphology, and may help guide future drug discovery efforts aimed at improving cardiac function.
This study is the first to use ICD-10 codes to perform a PheWAS analysis on a quantitative trait (i.e., TPMT activity) using data from a clinical data warehouse. The results showed that patients with very high TPMT activity were associated with anemia and hyperglycemia, while patients with low TPMT activity were associated with diabetes and hypertension. The findings were validated by biological test results and free-text reports, and further analyses using survival curves and a thiopurine efficacy evaluation showed that vhTPMT activity was associated with an increased risk of earlier anemia episodes and therapy failure. This study demonstrates the feasibility and benefits of performing a PheWAS on a quantitative trait using ICD-10 codes, and the potential for using this method to identify new subgroups of patients who require personalized clinical and therapeutic management.
Stem cells offer the potential to replace damaged tissues following traumatic spinal cord injury. This study assessed the efficacy of stem cell transplantation in animal models of spinal cord injury. One hundred and fifty-six publications using 45 different stem cell preparations met our inclusion criteria. Overall, autologous stem cell treatment does not appear to improve either motor or sensory outcome, but allogeneic stem cell implantation appears to improve both motor (27.2%) and sensory (26.3%) outcome. The study found that biological plausibility was supported by the presence of a dose–response relationship. The impact of compromised internal validity and publication bias mean that efficacy is likely to be somewhat lower than reported here. The study also identified several conditions under which animal experiments demonstrate greatest efficacy, including allogeneic stem cells, differentiation before implantation, and intravenous route of delivery.
Our review included 16 studies on the risk of re-infection with soil-transmitted helminths (STHs) after treatment. Overall, we found a low risk of re-infection in the first 3 months after treatment but a higher risk in the following months, with higher intensity of initial infection being a risk factor. We also found that re-infection rates were similar among different STHs, and that there was no significant difference in risk of re-infection between males and females. We did not find any evidence of a protective effect of iron or multi-micronutrient supplements on re-infection rates. Our study highlights the need for continued preventive chemotherapy to control STH reinfection in endemic areas.
Here, we describe a method named MiNEA (Microarray-based Network Enumeration Analysis) that uses microarray gene expression data to study differential metabolic processes between two conditions. MiNEA finds metabolic networks that are active in one condition and not in another, which could help us understand the metabolic changes that occur in different diseases. We applied MiNEA to study the differences in metabolism between normal and steatotic liver in mice and humans, as well as the differences between steatotic and NASH liver in mice. Our results show that MiNEA is able to identify different metabolic processes that are active in different conditions, and we believe that it could be a useful tool for studying the metabolic changes that occur in different diseases.
The sense of smell plays an important role in our daily lives, allowing us to detect a wide range of odors and identify the objects and organisms that produce them. The olfactory system in the brain processes the information from the olfactory receptors in the nose, where the olfactory receptor neurons send signals to the olfactory bulb. The olfactory bulb is a complex structure in the brain that is responsible for processing the signals from the olfactory receptors and for identifying the odors. The olfactory code is a set of rules that is used to identify different odors based on the information that is received from the olfactory receptors. The olfactory code is a complex set of rules, and there is still much that is not understood about how it works. The primacy code is one of the most well-known codes used in the olfactory system. The primacy code is based on the idea that the olfactory bulb responds more strongly to certain odors than others, and that these responses are determined by the order in which the olfactory receptor neurons fire. The primacy code is used to identify the most important odors, such as the smell of food or the smell of danger. The primacy code is a simple set of rules, and it is a good starting point for understanding how the olfactory system works. However, there are many other factors that can affect the olfactory code, such as the genetic makeup of the individual and the environment in which the individual lives. The olfactory code is still a topic of active research, and scientists are constantly discovering new ways to understand how it works.
HIV-1 bnMAbs have been shown to have incomplete neutralization against a subset of viruses, but the mechanism of this phenomenon is unclear. We found that bnMAbs targeting the V2 apex and MPER had the highest frequency of incomplete neutralization. Glycan heterogeneity is a candidate for incomplete neutralization by bnMAbs targeting the V2 apex. Furthermore, our results suggest that the use of pseudoviruses produced in 293T cells may underestimate the frequency of incomplete neutralization by bnMAbs. Our findings highlight the importance of evaluating bnMAb efficacy against diverse viral isolates in a clinical setting to ensure that they are effective against a broad range of HIV-1 variants.
Cancer cells have a unique metabolic rewiring that allows them to thrive in low oxygen conditions, despite the Warburg effect stating that cells require oxygen for full oxidative metabolism. In this paper, we investigate the mechanisms of this rewiring and its advantages for cancer cells. We used a computational modeling approach based on flux balance analysis (FBA) and found that aerobic glutamine-to-lactate metabolism is the key to allowing cancer cells to grow in low oxygen conditions. We also identified reductive carboxylation of glutamine as a novel mechanism that contributes to the ability of cancer cells to grow in low oxygen conditions. Overall, our findings suggest that aerobic glutamine metabolism is a key feature of cancer metabolism, and that targeting this pathway may be an effective strategy for cancer therapy.
Using a combination of cellular crosslinking and affinity purification, the authors identify specific interactions of PrP with other members of the mammalian prion protein family. They find that PrP interacts with Dpl, Dpl2 and Sho and that these interactions are conserved across mammalian species.
We have demonstrated that ILC2 are the primary producers of IL-5 in response to influenza infection. ILC2 require IL-33 produced by NKT cells in order to produce IL-5. We show that NKT cells are a critical source of IL-33 in response to influenza infection, and that IL-33 is necessary for ILC2 to produce IL-5. We also show that the cytokine IL-13, which is produced by ILC2, is necessary for the accumulation of eosinophils in the lungs following influenza infection. Finally, we demonstrate that IL-5 is necessary for the production of IL-13. Our findings shed light on the complex interactions between different types of immune cells in the lung in response to influenza infection.
Invasive nontyphoid Salmonella (iNTS) infections are increasingly being reported in Vietnam, particularly in HIV-infected adults. This study confirms that HIV infection is the primary risk factor for mortality in iNTS disease in Vietnam. Furthermore, we found that the two most common serovars causing iNTS disease were S. Enteritidis and S. Typhimurium, which is similar to sub-Saharan Africa. Interestingly, we found that S. Typhimurium was more likely to be resistant to antimicrobials than S. Enteritidis, and that HIV-infected patients were more likely to have reduced susceptibility to antimicrobials. This highlights the need for continued surveillance and monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in iNTS disease in Vietnam.
The paper describes a set of neural network-based methods for identifying structural proteins from metagenomic sequence data. The neural networks are trained on a large dataset of known bacteriophage structural proteins and are able to distinguish them from non-structural proteins with high accuracy. The authors also describe a set of cross-validation and testing methods for evaluating the performance of the neural networks. They find that the neural networks can accurately identify known bacteriophage structural proteins, including major capsid proteins, tail proteins, and minor capsid proteins, with high sensitivity and specificity. The authors also discuss potential applications of these methods, such as identifying new structural proteins from metagenomic data and using the neural networks to identify potential targets for antibiotics.
Here we describe the development of an antiviral therapy against KSHV, which causes Kaposi's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer. We developed a small molecule inhibitor of ORF20, a key enzyme in the replication of KSHV. The inhibitor blocks the replication of KSHV in both cell culture and primary human cells, and we found that it is effective against other herpesviruses as well. We also demonstrated that ORF20 is essential for the replication of KSHV and that it is a promising target for antiviral therapy.
Lassa fever, a zoonotic disease caused by the Lassa virus, is a major public health problem in endemic regions of West Africa, including Nigeria. The diagnosis of LVD is often challenging, particularly in children, due to the lack of specific clinical signs and symptoms. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of LVD in children admitted with fever to a tertiary care hospital in Ibadan, Nigeria. The overall prevalence of LVD in children with fever was 5.4%. The prevalence of LVD in children with fever was not significantly associated with the presence of meningitis, malaria or other infections, or the duration of fever, but was significantly higher in children with no localising signs of infection. The results of this study highlight the importance of a high index of suspicion for LVD in children with fever, especially those without localising signs of infection. Early diagnosis and treatment of LVD can improve outcomes and reduce the risk of transmission to others.
We report the identification of the Arabidopsis KAI2 gene, which is a transcription factor that controls the plant response to KAR1/KL-dependent drought stress. KAI2 is activated by KAR1/KL, leading to the regulation of a set of downstream genes involved in cuticle formation, stomatal closure, anthocyanin biosynthesis, and membrane integrity. These adjustments collectively contribute to plant adaptation to drought, making KAI2 a promising target for improving crop productivity in arid lands. Our results support the involvement of a KAR/KL-KAI2-SCFMAX2 signaling cascade in regulating plant drought resistance through controlling cell membrane stability, stomatal movement, cuticle development, and anthocyanin production.
Schistosomes, the causative agents of schistosomiasis, are blood flukes that require glucose for their growth and development. Schistosomes acquire glucose from the host through the activation of the insulin signalling pathway. In this study, we have shown that adult schistosomes have insulin-like receptors ( SjIR1 and SjIR2 ) that bind host insulin and are involved in the activation of the insulin signalling pathway. In addition, we have also shown that knockdown of SjIR1 or SjIR2 in adult schistosomes decreases the transcription of key downstream genes in the insulin signalling pathway and reduces glucose uptake in the parasites. Furthermore, vaccination with a recombinant antigen derived from SjIR1 or SjIR2, significantly decreases the growth of adult schistosomes and reduces the number of faecal eggs produced. These results suggest that the SjIRs play a key role in regulating glucose uptake and are potential targets for the development of transmission-blocking vaccines against schistosomiasis.
The paper provides an interesting approach to eliminate mosquitoes as a vector for filariasis infections. The paper describes a strategy where the authors have crossed two different mosquito species, one of which is naturally infected with Wolbachia, a bacteria that causes sterility in offspring when crossed with a different type of Wolbachia. By doing so, the authors have generated a strain of mosquitoes that are fertile, yet incompatible with the local population of mosquitoes, leading to a scenario where release of these mosquitoes can lead to a significant reduction in the population of the local mosquitoes. The authors have also provided evidence that this approach can be feasible in practice, as they have generated the desired strain of mosquitoes and demonstrated its compatibility with the local population.
This paper presents the first study to assess the burden of zoonotic HAT disease in Tanzania. The study estimated the number of HAT cases for the year 2016 and found that there were 143 cases in the district of Urambaro. The authors used a decision tree model to estimate the burden of HAT in Tanzania and found that the disease is responsible for a significant proportion of the health care burden in the country. The study also estimated the cost of HAT treatment and found that it is a major financial burden for patients and their families. The authors suggest that improving disease surveillance and providing appropriate treatment for HAT can help reduce the burden of the disease on health care systems and communities.
We have generated Ngly1−/− and Engase−/− mice using CRISPR/Cas9 technology and compared their phenotypes with wild type and Ngly1−/− Engase+/+ mice. Our results indicate that Ngly1−/− and Engase−/− mice do not have any significant morphological or physiological changes compared to wild type mice. However, we found that Ngly1−/− Engase−/− mice have a higher mortality rate during embryogenesis and have a reduced growth rate compared to Engase+/+ or Ngly1+/+ Engase+/+ mice. Our in vitro studies using MEF cells derived from these mice indicate that the absence of Engase activity leads to an increase in the N-glycan levels of ER-derived secretory proteins, resulting in their misfolding and a decrease in their expression levels. We also found that the absence of Ngly1 activity in Ngly1−/− Engase+/+ mice leads to the accumulation of N-glycans on ER-derived secretory proteins, resulting in their aggregation and a decrease in their expression levels. We therefore conclude that Engase activity is required for the proper folding and expression of ER-derived secretory proteins, while Ngly1 activity is required for maintaining the stability of the ER membrane.
We have developed a statistical model of hb gene expression in early Drosophila embryos to explain how the stochastic nature of mRNA and protein production leads to variable expression patterns. The model incorporates the effects of transcriptional noise, as well as binding site occupancy and self-feedback, to explain the variability in anterior boundary sharpness and relative mRNA and protein noise between WT, hb14F mutant and lacZ reporter lines. Our findings have implications for how the developmental process may buffer noise in gene expression patterns.
Our study investigates the evolution of the genetic differences between Neanderthals and modern humans, focusing on the X chromosome and the non-coding regions of the autosomes. Specifically, we examine the accumulation of deleterious mutations in Neanderthals and the introgression of these mutations into modern humans. We find that many deleterious mutations were present in Neanderthals, and that these mutations had an increased chance of being fixed in modern humans due to the smaller effective population size of modern humans. We also observe that the genetic differences between Neanderthals and modern humans are concentrated in regions of the genome that are not linked to any selected sites. Our results have implications for understanding the causes of some genetic disorders in modern humans and the ongoing debate about the degree of Neanderthal introgression into modern humans.
HIV-1 LTR is a complex regulatory region that controls transcription of viral genes. This work is the first to use perturbation analysis to dissect the roles of each Sp1 and κB site in controlling HIV-1 transcription. We found that different Sp1 sites independently regulate transcriptional noise and the propensity for latency. Sp1 site III is particularly important for maintaining a stable active expression state. Therefore, each Sp1 site plays a role in controlling HIV-1 transcription by stabilizing different states of the promoter.
The study compares 11 different methods for assigning orthologs across different species of organisms. Orthologs are genes that diverged through a speciation event and are typically very similar in function. The study used four different methods for evaluating the performance of the methods: phylogenetic accuracy, functional accuracy, expression accuracy, and gene neighborhood accuracy. The results showed that OMA and Homologene had the best performance in all four methods. In terms of phylogenetic accuracy, Ensembl and EggNOG were also found to have good performance. For functional accuracy, OrthoMCL performed well, but only at a lower level of specificity. BBH was found to have good performance in terms of functional accuracy, but only for pairs of species. Finally, RoundUp and Inparanoid performed well in terms of gene neighborhood accuracy. The study also compared the different methods in terms of their strengths and weaknesses and provided recommendations for different types of analyses.
Our paper reports the use of computational tools to predict novel drug targets for schistosomiasis and to identify new compounds that could potentially be repurposed as anti-schistosomal drugs. We used a combination of genomic and structural information to predict potential kinase inhibitors, and then used phenotypic screening to test our predictions. Our findings suggest that there are numerous potential targets that have not yet been investigated, and that some existing compounds could be repurposed as anti-schistosomal agents. We believe that our work could provide a starting point for the development of new schistosomiasis treatments.
We have investigated the folding and binding of the unstructured transcription factor pKID to the structured KIX protein using coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations. We find that binding and folding of pKID are concomitant processes that are coupled by non-native interactions between pKID and KIX. Folding of pKID into a two-helix structure is facilitated by the formation of non-native interactions with KIX, which are most important for the folding of the αB helix. The free energy surface of pKID folding and binding is not smooth, and it contains an on-pathway intermediate with two non-native interactions and three native interactions, with the αB helix being partially bound to KIX. The transition state structure is remarkably similar to the unbound state of pKID, with the αB helix being mostly unstructured and the αA helix partially dissociated. The results of our simulations suggest that the binding of pKID to KIX may be described as an induced fit mechanism. We find that ∼4-fold increase in the binding on-rate constant (kon ) from non-native to native interactions indicates that the non-native interactions increase the capture radius of the unfolded pKID. The transient non-specific binding of pKID to KIX on-pathway is observed in our simulations, and it is more important for the binding transition state structure than for the folded bound state structure.
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that countries with a history of schistosomiasis (a parasitic disease caused by flatworms of the genus Schistosoma) should implement schistosomiasis control programs. This systematic review includes articles published between 1942 and 2014 that report the prevalence and/or intensity of infection in children aged 0-19 years old in Latin American and Caribbean countries and territories of the Americas that are endemic for schistosomiasis. A total of 132 articles were included, which reported 1,242 prevalence and 199 intensity of infection data points. The highest prevalence was observed in Brazil, followed by Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Guadeloupe, Saint Lucia, and Venezuela. The most common diagnostic test was the Kato-Katz method. Most of the studies were conducted in Brazil and Venezuela. Intensity of infection data were available for four countries, with the highest values observed in Brazil and Puerto Rico. The prevalence of intense infection was very high in Brazil, despite the country's efforts to control the disease. The WHO recommends achieving a prevalence of less than 5% and 1% for severe and moderate levels of intensity of infection, respectively. Therefore, further studies are needed to evaluate the schistosomiasis control programs in Brazil and Venezuela, and to provide evidence for the development of new strategies to eliminate schistosomiasis in the Americas.
In this study, the authors report on the identification and characterization of infectious single genome variants of HIV-1 transmitted from subtype C heterosexual discordant couples in Zambia. The authors utilized full-length genomic sequencing of HIV-1 from the partners in each couple and identified a total of 66 single genome variants that were capable of replicating in a single genome amplification process. The authors then utilized a phylogenetic analysis of these variants to identify those that were most closely related to the infecting virus from each couple. They then characterized the infectivity and interferon resistance of these variants in vitro using a variety of assays. The authors also investigated the sensitivity of these variants to neutralization by antibodies that were generated in response to infection. The findings of this study provide important information about the evolutionary dynamics of HIV-1 transmission and could be useful for developing new strategies for the prevention of transmission.
This study reveals that filarial parasites induce lymphangiogenesis in vitro through mechanisms that are LEC-specific and involve the excretory-secretory components of the parasites. Filarial parasites are known to cause lymphedema and fibrosis, which are associated with the presence of parasites in the lymphatic system. This study found that the parasites can induce lymphangiogenesis, the formation of new lymphatic vessels, in vitro. The study also shows that the parasites may not be the cause of the fibrosis, as previously thought. Instead, the study suggests that the parasites may be able to stimulate lymphangiogenesis in a way that leads to fibrosis. This finding could have important implications for the development of new treatments for lymphedema and fibrosis caused by filarial parasites.
Microfluidic devices were used to sort and amplify single E. coli cells. The amplified genomic DNA was then sequenced to high depth using emulsion PCR. The microfluidic devices were found to be highly efficient at sorting and amplifying single cells and the resulting genomic DNA was sequenced to high depth. The high depth sequencing allowed for high-quality genome assemblies to be generated for the individual cells. The high efficiency of the microfluidic devices makes them a promising tool for future applications in microbial ecology and single-cell genomics.
The study aimed to understand how habitat, agricultural and defaunation intensities, rainfall, and small mammal richness influence the proportions of hosts of hantaviruses, which can cause hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in humans. The authors found that habitat diversity and rainfall had a positive effect on the proportions of hosts of pathogenic hantavirus genotypes. Additionally, defaunation intensity affected the proportions of hosts differently for different hantavirus genotypes, with some species increasing in abundance and others decreasing. The authors suggest that defaunation intensity may have important implications for the transmission of hantaviruses to humans.
Our study demonstrates the efficacy of BH3-only mimetics in preventing JEV, DENV, and ZIKV infections by inducing apoptosis in infected cells. We also show that BH3-only mimetics can be used to reduce viremia and enhance the host immune response in vivo. Our findings suggest that BH3-only mimetics could be used as a therapeutic option to treat flavivirus infections.
Canine rabies is a public health threat in many countries. The burden of canine rabies is high in Asia, with Viet Nam being a particularly endemic country. The study estimated the total cost of canine rabies in humans, dogs, and livestock for the years 2005 through 2014 in Viet Nam. The total cost of canine rabies over this period was more than $700 million in 2017 USD. The largest portion of costs was associated with human post-exposure prophylaxis, followed by non-medical costs associated with human prophylaxis, and then direct and indirect costs associated with dog vaccination. Livestock losses were a relatively small portion of the total cost. The study also found that the current vaccination coverage among dogs in Viet Nam is suboptimal, and that increasing vaccination coverage would be more cost-effective than continuing to provide post-exposure prophylaxis to all bite victims. The study concludes that there is a need for improved dog vaccination coverage in order to reduce the economic burden of canine rabies in Viet Nam.
The T2SS is a major secretion system in Gram-negative bacteria that transports proteins from the cytoplasm across the outer membrane. In this study, we demonstrate that T2SS secretin proteins are structurally diverse and can be classified into two distinct families: PulS-OutS and AspS. These two families have different physiological roles and are associated with distinct secretion pathways. We show that the AspS family of secretins is a novel family of proteins that play a key role in T2SS secretion by functioning as a pilotin to facilitate the interaction between the secretin and the secretin substrate. We provide structural and biochemical evidence to support the proposed role of AspS in T2SS secretion and discuss the potential implications of these findings for our understanding of T2SS function and evolution.
In this study, we describe the identification and characterization of a novel surface-exposed OMP of L . interrogans, OmpL37. The binding of OmpL37 to human skin elastin was one of the strongest observed among leptospiral surface proteins. The binding of OmpL37 to elastin was enhanced by the addition of an antibody specific for OmpL37, suggesting a role for OmpL37 in leptospiral adhesion to elastin-rich tissues. Additionally, we found that OmpL37 was expressed in pathogenic, but not saprophytic, strains of Leptospira. This study provides important information regarding the potential role of OmpL37 in the pathogenesis of leptospirosis.
This article presents a mathematical model for the process of neutralization of HIV-1 infection by antibodies. The model considers both the binding of antibodies to epitopes on the viral envelope and the subsequent disruption of the conformational integrity of the envelope, leading to viral fusion with the target cell. The model accounts for the effects of both the concentration of antibodies and the number of epitopes bound by antibodies on the rate of viral fusion. The authors apply the model to analyze neutralization experiments using mAbs and Fabs that bind to gp41 and gp120 epitopes on the viral envelope. The authors propose a Hill function to describe the probability of disabling an epitope by an antibody and fit this function to data from neutralization experiments using 2F5 and 4E10 mAbs and their Fab fragments. The results of the analysis indicate that the 2F5 mAb is more effective than its Fab fragment at neutralizing HIV-1 infection, while the 4E10 mAb is only marginally better than its Fab fragment. The authors propose that this difference is due to the ability of 2F5 to form cross-links between adjacent gp41 epitopes on the viral envelope, whereas 4E10 does not form such cross-links. The authors suggest that this property of 2F5 may make it a more effective therapeutic agent against HIV-1 infection.
The study aimed to determine the feasibility of eliminating onchocerciasis, a parasitic disease that causes river blindness, in three areas in West Africa using ivermectin treatment. The results of the study show that after 15-17 years of ivermectin treatment, the prevalence of the parasite that causes the disease and the number of parasites in the body decreased to zero in all three areas, indicating that elimination was achieved. The study also showed that the vector that carries the parasite was not able to transmit the disease in any of the three areas after cessation of treatment. These findings provide evidence that elimination of onchocerciasis is feasible in some areas of West Africa using ivermectin treatment.
Picornavirus VP4 is a small protein that is critical for the entry of the virus into host cells. The study presented here provides evidence for the multimerization and pore-forming activity of VP4. The study shows that VP4 can form a membrane-like structure that is able to transport large molecules, such as dextrans, across the membrane. The study also shows that the pore-forming activity of VP4 is dependent on the pH of the surrounding environment. The study suggests that VP4 may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of viral infections.
In this study, the authors identify three enzymes involved in the modification of lipid A in Francisella tularensis, a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the rare but deadly disease tularemia. The enzymes are involved in the addition of mannose and galactosamine to lipid A, which modulates the immune response to the bacteria. The authors generated mutants of these enzymes and found that they were attenuated in mice, suggesting that they are important for virulence. The mutants also induced a protective immune response in mice when given before a challenge with WT bacteria. The authors used a combination of in vitro and in vivo approaches to identify the enzymes and characterize their functions. Overall, this work provides important insights into the role of lipid A modification in Francisella virulence and the immune response to the bacterium.
A protein called Era from the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus is investigated for its function in ribosome assembly. The protein is found to interact with other RNA-GTPases, and this interaction is important for the stability of the 30S ribosomal subunit under nutrient-deficient conditions.
We have shown that the NO donor sodium nitrite (SN) reduces serum myoglobin in mice with mild to moderate liver disease, but not in normal mice or in mice with severe liver disease. We believe that this effect may be due to the ability of SN to increase NO levels in the bloodstream, which in turn may help to alleviate oxidative stress in the liver. This finding could have implications for the treatment of liver disease, as well as for understanding the mechanisms underlying the protective effects of NO in the liver.
In this study, we demonstrate the use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing in two soil-transmitted nematode (STN) species, Strongyloides stercoralis and Strongyloides ratti. We used a plasmid-based approach for Cas9 delivery and sgRNA expression in both species. We targeted four different genes in S. stercoralis: Ss-unc-22, Ss-tax-4, Ss-mars, and Ss-bli-1. We also targeted two genes in S. ratti: Sr-unc-22 and Sr-tax-4. We found that Cas9/sgRNA targeting of Ss-unc-22 and Sr-unc-22 resulted in gene disruption and heritable knockout in progeny. We also found that HDR-mediated gene replacement is possible in S. stercoralis and S. ratti using RNP-based Cas9 delivery and sgRNA expression. We found that HDR-mediated gene replacement is more efficient in S. stercoralis than in S. ratti. Our study provides a foundation for further development of CRISPR/Cas9 as a tool for studying and controlling STNs.
In this study, we have developed a new model to describe the effects of ribosome drop-off on translation. We found that ribosome drop-off can dramatically affect translation rates and dynamics. We also found that the effect of ribosome drop-off is mRNA-specific and that some mRNAs are much more resilient to ribosome drop-off than others. We believe that these results provide a new tool for the analysis and understanding of ribosome profiling data.
The WHO recommends that STH infections are controlled through regular deworming of school-aged children. However, in many areas where transmission is persistent, a single round of MDA alone is not sufficient to achieve interruption of transmission. To investigate this further, we performed simulations of the DeWorm3 trial, which aims to control schistosomiasis and STH infections through multiple rounds of MDA. The study found that achieving interruption of transmission in areas where schistosomiasis is prevalent is extremely difficult, even with high coverage levels of MDA treatment. It was also found that in areas where hookworm is prevalent, achieving interruption of transmission is easier, but still requires high coverage levels of MDA treatment. The study highlights the need for continued research on new strategies to control STH infections.
Cholera is an acute diarrheal disease caused by ingestion of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. It can cause rapid and severe dehydration and, if left untreated, can be fatal. The only currently licensed cholera vaccine is the oral killed whole cell vaccine Shanchol, which provides 40–85% protective efficacy for 6–60 months in children aged 5–15 years. However, young children are the most vulnerable to cholera and the vaccine has limited efficacy in this age group. A promising alternative is a cholera conjugate vaccine, in which the O-specific polysaccharide (OSP) antigen of V. cholerae is conjugated to a carrier protein. Conjugate vaccines have been shown to be effective and safe in mice and are currently being developed for use in humans. The immune response to cholera conjugate vaccines is different from that to killed whole cell vaccines, with a stronger T-cell dependent response. However, the mechanism of protection is unclear, as is the extent to which the immune response induced by the vaccine can cross protect against different V. cholerae strains. The development of a cholera conjugate vaccine could be a significant step forward in the control of cholera, particularly in young children.
This study investigates the role of the exoenzyme pyoverdine in the survival of P. aeruginosa in the murine gut. Pyoverdine, a fluorescent molecule produced by P. aeruginosa, has previously been shown to enhance its ability to colonize plant roots. The study first confirmed that P. aeruginosa produces pyoverdine in the murine gut by extracting and detecting the fluorescent compound in feces and intestinal tissue. It then used RNA sequencing to identify a mutation in the gene encoding the enzyme responsible for pyoverdine synthesis, and confirmed that the mutation leads to a loss of pyoverdine production. The study then demonstrated that the loss of pyoverdine production in the P. aeruginosa strain did not result in reduced colonization of the murine gut. In fact, the strain with reduced pyoverdine production had a slight but statistically significant advantage in colonizing the murine gut compared to wild-type P. aeruginosa. The study then used a mouse model of neutropenia to investigate the role of pyoverdine in the ability of P. aeruginosa to colonize the gut in the absence of neutrophils. The study found that the loss of pyoverdine production did not have a significant effect on the ability of P. aeruginosa to colonize the gut in the absence of neutrophils. Finally, the study used RNA sequencing to investigate the transcriptional response of P. aeruginosa in the murine gut. The study found that the loss of pyoverdine production in P. aeruginosa did not lead to any significant changes in gene expression. Overall, the study provides important new insights into the role of pyoverdine in the ability of P. aeruginosa to colonize the gut.
In this study, the authors investigate the dynamics of HIV infection when the inoculum contains a mix of both WT and EM virus, and when the inoculum contains only EM virus. They find that the dynamics of infection are different in these two scenarios, with the EM virus growing more quickly and the WT virus growing more slowly. They also find that the rate of reversion from EM to WT is slower when the inoculum contains less WT virus. These findings suggest that the inoculum can influence the dynamics of HIV infection, and may have implications for the pathogenesis of HIV.
The PCA1 gene of the naturally occurring yeast strains from Evolution Canyon exhibits a cadmium resistance phenotype. This gene has undergone mutations that fine-tune its activity to confer the phenotype. These mutations occurred both in the coding and regulatory regions. The selective pressure for the cadmium resistance phenotype is likely to have come from the higher cadmium concentrations in the soil of Evolution Canyon.
In this study, we investigated whether oncogenic pathways are activated in gastric cancer (GC). Using microarray data from three different GC cohorts, we examined the activity of 11 oncogenic pathways related to GC carcinogenesis. We show that, in addition to previously reported pathways such as p53 signaling and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, the MAPK/ERK pathway and the PI3K/AKT pathway are also activated in GC. We also show that, while there is an association between the Wnt/β-catenin and MAPK/ERK pathways in GC, the PI3K/AKT pathway is not associated with either of these pathways. Our results suggest that the activity of multiple oncogenic pathways, which we refer to as the "GC pathway signature", may be a useful tool for understanding GC pathogenesis, and could potentially be used as a prognostic tool for GC.
We have studied the effects of DNA supercoiling on transcriptional regulation in prokaryotes. Our results suggest that DNA supercoiling plays a key role in the transcriptional regulation of prokaryotic organisms in response to environmental changes. We have found that strong SIDD sites in the upstream regulatory regions of genes are more likely to be associated with transcriptional changes in response to environmental changes than are weak SIDD sites. We have also found that strong SIDD sites are more likely to be located near transcriptional regulators and to have significant effects on the transcriptional regulation of their target genes. Our results suggest that DNA supercoiling is a major determinant of transcriptional regulation in prokaryotes and that changes in supercoiling state in response to environmental changes play a key role in regulating gene expression.
In this study, we investigate the functions of HMG-box genes in the model filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. We find that the HMG-box family consists of four genes that encode homologous proteins. We name these genes PaHMG1, PaHMG3, PaHMG5, and PaHMG6. PaHMG3 and PaHMG5 are essential for vegetative growth, while PaHMG1 and PaHMG6 are dispensable. Inactivation of PaHMG3 leads to defects in hyphal development and sexual reproduction. PaHMG5 is also required for sexual reproduction, but its function is less severe than that of PaHMG3. We also find that PaHMG3 and PaHMG5 are involved in the regulation of sexual and asexual reproduction. We perform RNA-seq analysis to investigate the mechanisms underlying the function of HMG-box genes in N. crassa. Our results show that PaHMG3 and PaHMG5 are involved in the regulation of genes involved in secondary metabolism and stress responses. We also find that PaHMG5 is involved in the regulation of genes involved in sexual reproduction.
In this study, we evaluated the persistence of Ebola virus (EBOV) in body fluids of survivors after they were discharged from the Ebola Treatment Unit (ETU). We found that EBOV could persist in body fluids for up to 3 months after discharge. These findings are important because they help us understand how to prevent further transmission of EBOV in the community.
Chemotaxis is a crucial behavior for bacteria to navigate chemical gradients and find food. However, the microscopic mechanisms underlying chemotactic decision-making are still not fully understood. Using information theory, we predict the distributions of chemical gradients that E. coli experience when swimming. We show that the predicted distributions are consistent with experimental data, and that the optimal chemotactic index (CI) value is about 10 bits, indicating that bacteria can efficiently sense a wide range of gradients. We also predict the optimal drift velocity up the gradients, which is about 10% of the maximum swimming speed. Our results provide a framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms of chemotactic decision-making.
We have analyzed the failure rate of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) using data from long-term transplantation experiments. The failure rate, determined by the frequency of hematopoietic failure, is a measure of the reliability of the stem cell population. We have shown that the failure rate is a function of time and of the lifespan of the HSC clone. We have also shown that the failure rate is a self-organized property of the HSC population, with a "noisy" mean-reverting pattern. We have derived a mathematical model of the failure rate based on the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, which provides a good fit to the experimental data. Our analysis has important implications for understanding the behavior of stem cell populations and their ability to maintain homeostasis over long periods of time.
This study investigated the role of antibodies in promoting the immunity of macrophages against helminth infection. It demonstrated that antibodies can trigger the activation of macrophages and promote their ability to kill and remove helminths. The study also showed that antibodies can trigger the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in macrophages, which can further enhance their ability to kill and remove helminths. The study suggested that antibodies could be a potential therapeutic strategy for helminth infections, and that further research into their mechanisms of action is needed.
Using a new visualization system based on fluorescently labeled proteins that bind to specific DNA sites, we have visualized in real time the dynamics of chromatin movement and resection in living yeast cells in response to DNA damage. We find that resection proceeds as a rapid, extensive process that is independent of the Ku complex and the NHEJ pathway. Resection progresses in steps of ∼1 kb, preferentially starting from regions that lack an available homology template. We observed that a fraction of resection proceeds without control by the HR machinery, resulting in the escape of resection from the MRX complex and leading to increased resection rates. This new visualization tool can be applied to study the dynamics of chromatin resection and repair at other genomic sites.
[This lay summary is based on the article's abstract which is not available.]
Dengue (DENV) is a virus spread by mosquitoes that can cause serious illness and death. Studies have shown that some people have subclinical infections, meaning that they have a low level of the virus but do not develop clinical symptoms. In this study, researchers analyzed cytokine production in PBMC from Thai children who had subclinical or symptomatic DENV infections. They found that levels of certain cytokines, such as IL-15, IL-6, and MCP-1, were significantly higher in PBMC from children who experienced subclinical infections. They also found that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells produced more cytokines in response to DENV stimulation in children who had subclinical infections. These results suggest that a specific cytokine profile may be associated with subclinical infections and could contribute to a more severe presentation of the subsequent infection.
The current study reveals that the Hedgehog signaling pathway in Drosophila wing discs involves a previously unrecognized "overshoot" mechanism. In this mechanism, Hh-mediated expression of the Ptc gene in the anterior compartment of the wing disc results in the down-regulation of Hh signaling in this same compartment. This down-regulation allows the posterior compartment to receive a higher concentration of Hh signal, resulting in the expression of Ptc in the posterior compartment. This process is repeated, with the anterior compartment down-regulating Hh signal in the posterior compartment, and vice versa. This "overshoot" mechanism results in a gradual, but significant, shift in the boundary between the anterior and posterior compartments, resulting in the final pattern of gene expression in the wing disc. The study provides evidence that the Hh-mediated gene expression pattern in Drosophila wing discs is influenced by a dynamic process involving the interaction of Hh with its own receptor.
This study reports the results of testing the effects of the Lightweight mutation on mouse body composition, behavior, and anesthetic sensitivity. The mutation was generated in a strain of mice carrying the Lightweight (Lwt) allele of the unc-79 gene, which encodes a component of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). The mutation was created by combining the Lwt allele with a mutant allele of the nca-2 gene, which encodes a subunit of the nAChR. The study found that mice carrying the Lwt/Lwt genotype had smaller bodies and lower body weights than wild-type mice, and that these differences were independent of the nAChR. The study also found that mice carrying the Lwt/Lwt genotype had lower activity levels and higher sensitivity to ethanol than wild-type mice, and that these differences were dependent on the nAChR. The study concludes that the Lightweight mutation has pleiotropic effects on body composition, behavior, and anesthetic sensitivity.
In the current study, we assessed the importance of caspase-like 1 (CaspL1) in the anti-malarial immune response mediated by the Imd pathway in Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes. We first performed a reverse genetic screen using RNA interference (RNAi) to identify Imd pathway components that are required for resistance to the malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. We found that CaspL1 is required for resistance to P. falciparum, but only in the early stages of infection. We then examined the role of CaspL1 in the midgut immune response to P. falciparum by silencing CaspL1 and monitoring changes in gene expression and oocyst numbers. Our results indicate that CaspL1 plays a critical role in the midgut immune response to P. falciparum by suppressing the expression of genes involved in the anti-malarial response and promoting the proliferation of parasites. We also found that the suppression of CaspL1 expression by P. falciparum is required for the parasite to successfully invade the midgut. Finally, we assessed the efficacy of silencing CaspL1 as a potential strategy for controlling malaria transmission. Our results suggest that CaspL1 silencing could be an effective approach for reducing malaria transmission, particularly when combined with other strategies that target the Imd pathway.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (BMMSCs) are considered potential therapeutic cells for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, we tested the effect of BMMSCs in a mouse model of pulmonary fibrosis induced by infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis (Pb18). The administration of BMMSCs to infected mice exacerbated the fibrotic response. The increase in fibrosis was associated with an increase in the number of fibrocytes in the lungs of the mice. Fibrocytes are cells that are found in fibrotic lesions and are responsible for the production of collagen and other extracellular matrix components. These results suggest that BMMSCs do not have a beneficial effect on pulmonary fibrosis in this mouse model.
The current study presents the results of a multi-year entomological survey of sand flies in different Mediterranean countries. The study aimed to analyze the dynamics of sand fly populations and their seasonal activity patterns. The survey included data from 1167 sand flies, which were collected through 36 light traps/night in 6 different countries. The study found that sand fly populations were influenced by latitude, which was negatively correlated with the temperature of the sites. The study also found that sand fly populations were affected by local environmental variables, such as vegetation and water availability. The study found that the period of sand fly activity was dependent on the temperature of the site and was influenced by latitude. The study identified a common pattern of sand fly activity, which increased shortly after sunset and continued until just after sunrise. The study also found that sand fly populations were composed of several species, including P . perniciosus, P . ariasi, P . kandelakii, P . balcanicus, P . tobbi, and P . neglectus. The study identified a common pattern of seasonal activity of these species, which increased from June through October, with peaks occurring in July and September. The study also found that the period of activity was not equally distributed across all sites, with earlier emergence and density waves occurring in southern territories. Overall, the study provides valuable information on the seasonal dynamics and activity patterns of sand fly populations in the Mediterranean region.
This article describes the gene expression changes in monocytes infected with the bacterium Orientia tsutsugamushi, the causative agent of scrub typhus. The authors found that the infection led to an increase in the expression of genes related to type I and II interferon, inflammatory responses, chemotaxis, and apoptosis. They also identified specific genes that were differentially expressed in patients with scrub typhus compared to healthy controls and those with other infectious diseases. These findings provide new insights into the immune response to O. tsutsugamushi infection and may have implications for the development of diagnostic tools for scrub typhus.
We describe a novel spiking neural network model for route-following in ants, which takes into account the physical constraints of their visual system. The model consists of two layers: visual projection neurons (vPNs) and Kenyon cells (KCs), and an output neuron (EN) that computes the average activity of the KCs. The vPNs receive input from the environment, and the KCs receive input from the vPNs. The EN output is used to compute the probability that a given input image is a match for a stored image. The model is trained using a modified Hebbian rule that takes into account the physical constraints of the system, such as the limited spatial resolution of the visual system. We tested the model on simulated images of an ant's environment, and found that it can accurately learn and recognize patterns in the images. We also found that the model can generalize to new images that are similar but not identical to the stored images. These results suggest that the model may be useful for understanding how ants navigate in complex environments.
We have used Arabidopsis thaliana cauline leaves as a model system to study pathogen-triggered leaf abscission. We found that pathogen-triggered leaf abscission requires components of the floral organ abscission signaling pathway, but not the ethylene signaling pathway. We found that pathogen-triggered leaf abscission is a defense response and that salicylic acid is required for this response. We also found that pathogen-triggered leaf abscission occurs in a similar manner to drought-triggered leaf abscission. Our findings support a model whereby plants use a common defense response to various stresses.
In this study, we investigated how directional selectivity of ON SACs is influenced by GABAergic inhibition. We found that the preferred direction of ON SACs is not affected by GABAergic inhibition of either non-VGCC GABA receptors or HVGCC GABA receptors. However, the contrast of the directional response is modulated by GABAergic inhibition. The contrast of the directional response is increased by the inhibition of non-VGCC GABA receptors and decreased by the inhibition of HVGCC GABA receptors. These results suggest that the directional selectivity of ON SACs is primarily determined by the intrinsic properties of the neurons and that GABAergic inhibition plays a secondary role in modulating the directional selectivity of ON SACs.
The goal of this study was to understand why some pathogens are more virulent than others. To do this, the authors gathered data on 43 different human pathogens and looked at how many cells were needed to establish an infection, as well as the number of deaths caused by those pathogens. They found that pathogens that use locally acting immune molecules need fewer cells to establish an infection, but are not less virulent than those that use distantly acting molecules. Instead, they found that virulence was negatively correlated with infective dose, and higher in pathogens infecting wounded skin compared with those ingested or inhaled. Overall, the study suggests that broad-scale comparative analyses can help explain variation in parasite traits such as virulence.
This study has identified a number of potential targets for miRNAs in the developing juvenile and adult schistosome worms. Using miRNA-unaware methods, it was found that genes with 3’-UTRs that contain a target site for members of the miR-277 family were significantly enriched in transcripts that are downregulated in adult worms compared to juvenile worms. These findings were then corroborated by a stringent miRNA target prediction approach that used TargetScan with conservation and miRanda to identify the targets of the miR-277 family. This analysis identified 12+14+20 targets, many of which are associated with transcriptional regulation. Interestingly, one of the targets was Argonaute, a protein known to be part of the RNAi effector pathway. This suggests that a feedback loop may exist between the expression of miRNAs and the RNAi effector pathway. The study also reports the first use of a standard WISH technique to localise miRNAs in schistosomes. This demonstrated that sma-miR-4989 is expressed in tegumental cells of the schistosome, and is robustly detected in the tegumental cells surrounding the oesophagus of male worms. This study has expanded the miRNA-target prediction toolkit, and shed light on the potential role of the miR-277 family in the regulation of gene expression during the development of the schistosome.
In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing and RT-PCR to identify and characterize 15 novel bat SARS-CoV-2-like viruses in fecal samples collected from a cave in China. These viruses have a complete S gene sequence and the backbone of SARS-CoV-2, and are therefore highly similar to SARS-CoV-2. We also constructed infectious clones of four novel bat SARS-CoV-2-like viruses by reverse genetics and characterized their replication in HeLa cells. Our results demonstrate the presence of a diverse pool of SARS-CoV-2-like viruses in bats in China, and highlight the importance of further investigating the potential of these viruses to cause disease in humans.
The FECRT is a widely used tool for monitoring anthelmintic drug efficacy in large populations of humans. This study was concerned with the possible distorting effects of density-dependent worm fecundity on the utility of the FECRT. This phenomenon has been described in several studies of hookworms in humans. The current study first examined a recent study in which canine hookworms were exposed to pyrantel. Female worms were collected from dogs after drug treatment and their egg output was measured. The data from this study were reanalysed in terms of the egg output per female worm before and after treatment. It was found that the worms increased their egg output significantly after treatment. This result supported the idea that hookworms may be able to increase their egg output in response to relaxation of density-dependent constraints on their reproduction following drug treatment. The study then examined the effects of density-dependent fecundity constraints on a FECRT in human cases of N . americanus infection. It was found that the egg output per female worm before treatment was strongly negatively correlated with the worm burden in each human case, indicating that density-dependent effects were responsible for this relationship. The relationship between egg output per female worm and worm burden was then analysed in terms of groups of cases with different pre-treatment egg outputs. It was found that the proportion of cases with high egg output per female worm was much greater in groups with lower worm burdens than in those with higher worm burdens. The result of this analysis was to suggest that omission of cases with high egg output per female worm in order to minimise the distorting effects of density-dependent constraints would be possible in some cases. However, the extent to which this could be done was also discussed, as it was found that omission of the highest egg output cases would not necessarily be possible as these cases were also those with the highest worm burdens. The study therefore concluded that the density-dependent effects on hookworm egg output could have a significant potential to distort FECRTs in human cases, and that this may limit the utility of the FECRT for monitoring drug resistance.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of Heparan Sulfate (HS) in the development of the lung. HS is a carbohydrate polymer that plays an important role in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions, and is found in the extracellular matrix of many tissues. HS has been shown to be required for the proper development of many organs, including the pancreas, liver, and brain. The authors show that HS is required for proper lung development, and that a lack of HS results in branching defects, hyperplasia, and hyperproliferation. The authors suggest that HS is involved in the regulation of signaling pathways that are important for lung development, including Wnt, Bmp, and Fgf. The authors also suggest that HS may be involved in the regulation of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of HS in lung development, and suggests that HS may be a useful therapeutic target for the treatment of lung-related diseases.
This paper presents a model for the probability that a fusion gene can be detected by end-sequencing and mapping paired reads to a reference genome. The model takes into account the number and size of the clones end-sequenced, the distance between the ends of the clone, and the probability that the mapped ends are from different strands. The model also incorporates the probability that the clone is a chimera.
The paper describes a mathematical model that simulates the chemotactic motion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells under the influence of a gradient of chemoattractant. The model consists of a number of components, including an excitable network, a LEGI (localized, excitable, gradient-sensing, inhibitory) mechanism, a mechanical model, and a polarization module. The excitable network consists of the actin polymerization and signaling components of the cell, while the LEGI mechanism is responsible for sensing the gradient and producing the signal that drives the cell motion. The mechanical model is used to simulate the effect of the cell's cytoskeleton on its motion, and the polarization module accounts for the long-term persistence of the cell's motion. The authors carried out simulations of the model and found that the cell's motion is consistent with experimental observations.
In this study, we report the generation of a novel mouse model for testing the role of TDRD6 in male germ cells. We used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to generate a mouse line with a floxed Tdrd6 allele, allowing for the knockout of TDRD6 in a specific germ cell population. We first examined the expression of TDRD6 and its cofactors in testis cells. We found that TDRD6 is expressed in both spermatocytes and spermatids, and it is enriched in the nuclear speckles where snRNPs are assembled. We also found that TDRD6 associates with the splicing factor PRMT5 in a complex that is important for splicing regulation. In spermatocytes, TDRD6 is important for the correct assembly of the spliceosome. We performed RNA sequencing on Tdrd6-deficient primary spermatocytes and found that TDRD6 deficiency leads to a loss of U5 snRNPs and a decrease in the activity of U6 snRNPs. These changes affect the composition of the spliceosome and lead to a decrease in the efficiency of snRNP assembly, which in turn affects the splicing process. We also found that TDRD6 is important for the formation of ChBs, which contain snRNPs that are not used for splicing. Our study provides new insights into the function of TDRD6 in male germ cells and its role in the splicing process.
This paper presents a new computational model for studying the dynamics of bacterial acquisition and clearance. The model uses a probabilistic framework based on a mixture model that distinguishes between the same strain and different strains of bacteria in a population. The authors fit this model to sequential data from a population of S. aureus patients, using a combination of ABC and MCMC methods. They find that the model is able to identify the same strain in over 90% of patients, and that the acquisition and clearance rates of the same strain are roughly equal. The authors also show that the model can be used to study other aspects of bacterial colonization, such as the probability of the same strain being present in two consecutive samples and the probability of the same strain being present in two samples from the same patient.
How can plants grow and reproduce if they lack the ability to move? The answer to this question lies in the ability of plants to transport and use molecules such as water, carbon dioxide, and nutrients to sustain themselves. A new study by Barbier et al. in PLOS Biology shows that auxin, a plant hormone that regulates growth and development, is transported through a novel mechanism that involves a combination of two different types of auxin transport. This mechanism allows plants to respond quickly and precisely to changes in their environment, and provides a unifying concept for the regulation of auxin transport throughout the plant.
The study aimed to identify peptides that could be used in diagnostic rapid tests for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a disease caused by parasites of the Leishmania donovani complex. A comprehensive approach was employed to identify the proteins recognized by human IgG1 antibodies from VL patients. This included the analysis of western blots, mass spectrometry, in silico filtering, peptide synthesis, and screening with prototype rapid tests. The final selected peptides were then synthesized and tested in prototype rapid tests. The results of this study suggest that it is possible to identify and validate peptides that could be used as diagnostic markers for VL.
The article describes the findings of a study on cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), a parasitic infection caused by Leishmania parasites and transmitted by sandflies. The study was conducted on 317 patients with CL from 5 countries in the Near East region and involved microscopic evaluation of skin biopsies and molecular subspeciation of Leishmania parasites. The study found that caseating granulomas, which are rare in CL, are more prevalent in this region than previously thought. The study also identified specific clinical and microscopic features associated with caseating granulomas in CL. These findings may help in the diagnosis and management of CL cases with caseating granulomas in endemic regions.
In this study, the authors used mouse models to investigate the role of a gene, Zfp69, in the development of diabetes. They found that a loss-of-function mutation in the Zfp69 gene causes an increase in blood glucose levels and a decrease in insulin sensitivity in mice. They also identified an allele of Zfp69 that aggravates the obese-diabetic phenotype of mice, and that this effect requires the presence of another diabetogenic allele, Nidd/SJL. The authors provide evidence that Zfp69 plays a crucial role in the development of diabetes and may be a promising target for therapeutic interventions.
In this study, we have built a mathematical model of the regulation of T cell differentiation, in order to study the differentiation of Th cells and their plasticity. Our model takes into account the current knowledge of the molecular actors involved in this process, as well as the interactions between them. We have then used this model to simulate the differentiation of Th cells under different conditions and identified new phenotypes of Th cells. We have also predicted the stability of these differentiation patterns. Our results highlight the plasticity of Th cell differentiation, and show that the T cell network is highly dynamic and sensitive to changes in the environment.
We have used a thermodynamic computational framework to investigate the biochemical mechanisms that direct the widespread, quantitative patterns of binding by five developmental regulatory factors in the Drosophila blastoderm embryo. We find a good fit with a simple thermodynamic model that incorporates DNA accessibility, protein binding affinities, and chromatin compaction. Our results suggest that transcription factor binding is largely independent of competition between factors for binding sites or direct heteromeric interactions between proteins. Instead, our data indicate that DNA accessibility is a key determinant of where and how much each transcription factor is bound in vivo. By using this model to predict in vivo binding, we have identified regions in the genome that are bound by multiple factors. Our analysis of these co-bound regions reveals that they are not necessarily bound by multiple factors cooperatively, but rather tend to be bound independently by multiple factors that may have shared regulatory targets.
In the article "stg transcriptional regulation by Emc and Da in Drosophila wing discs", the authors investigate the regulation of the stg gene in the wing discs of Drosophila melanogaster. They found that Emc and Da proteins bind to the stg promoter and that they repress or activate stg transcription, respectively. The authors also identified a novel binding site for Da in the stg promoter and a novel Da target gene. Overall, their findings provide new insights into the regulation of stg transcription during wing disc development in Drosophila.
In this study, we developed a comprehensive computational and statistical analysis pipeline for post-identification studies of phosphoproteomics data and applied it to analyze our interim high mass accuracy yeast phosphoproteome datasets. A total of 882 unique phosphopeptides representing 486 proteins were identified as significantly influenced by at least one out of 8 kinase-dead mutants. Among them, 28 phosphopeptides representing 26 proteins were globally significantly changed. Nineteen candidate proteins with relatively high degrees of connectivity were selected as hub proteins in the stringent correlation network. Four of these candidate proteins were validated as impacting invasive growth in filamentous yeast. We also inferred causal relationships from the phosphorylation changes in response to individual mutants and inferred potential proteins to be intervened in future studies. The analysis pipeline has been developed to study yeast filamentous growth pathways; however, the methodology is not limited to yeast or this biological process. It can be applied to other complex organisms to facilitate investigation into various biological processes.
In this study, we investigate the expression of genes on the X and autosomal chromosomes in the male germline of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. We use two different approaches: transgenic reporters and microarray analysis. For transgenic reporters, we use two different lines, one with the gene ocnus inserted on the X chromosome and one with the same gene inserted on an autosome. We find that expression from the X-linked transgene is much lower than expression from the autosomal transgene in both premeiotic and meiotic cells. We also find that the X-linked transgene is much lower expressed than the autosomal transgene in whole testes. For microarray analysis, we use published data from two different studies and find that, in both studies, expression from the X chromosome is much lower than expression from the autosomes in both premeiotic and meiotic cells. We also find that the X chromosome is expressed much lower than the autosomes in whole testes. These results are consistent with the idea that the X chromosome is expressed much lower than the autosomes in the male germline of Drosophila melanogaster, and that this difference is established early in development, before meiosis begins.
We have identified that mice colonized with Citrobacter rodentium exhibit a phase-dependent interaction of bacterial invasion with host mucosal immunity in the colon. The initial phase of colonization is characterized by a lack of host immunity to the bacteria, which allows for efficient colonization and replication of the bacteria. During the subsequent phase of colonization, the host mounts an adaptive immune response that effectively controls bacterial growth and prevents bacterial colonization in the colon. We have identified that the host immune response involves the activation of NOD2- and TLR5-dependent signaling, leading to the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the recruitment of lymphocytes to the site of infection. These findings suggest that the mucosal immune response plays a critical role in controlling bacterial growth and preventing bacterial colonization in the colon during the phase of colonization that occurs after the initial phase.
This paper presents a new method for estimating the overlap of fixed-size gene pools from incomplete samples. By modeling the process of sampling genes from the pool, this method provides a point estimate of the overlap as well as uncertainty estimates through the use of credible intervals. These estimates are based on Bayesian inference and are shown to improve upon previous methods that rely on presence/absence data alone. The authors revisit previously published studies of the var genes of P. falciparum using their new method and find that switching from the Sørenson-Dice coefficient to the Bayesian repertoire overlap method leads to different conclusions. The authors also show how the number of unique var sequences per isolate can be used to plan sequencing studies and estimate study costs.
We have previously shown that the β3K residue of PKA plays a critical role in stabilizing the open active conformation of the enzyme . The β3K residue is located on a loop (the β3-loop) that interacts with the αF helix to form a critical stabilizing interface. The absence of the β3K residue disrupts this interface and leads to a shift in the equilibrium from the active to the inactive conformation . We have also shown that the β3-loop plays a critical role in the catalytic mechanism of PKA, and that its stabilization is important for efficient phosphorylation of substrates .
This study investigated the sensitivity and specificity of two different school-based and community-based surveys for detecting ongoing transmission of lymphatic filariasis (LF) in American Samoa, a country in the Pacific Ocean where LF is endemic. The study found that the school-based survey, which tested children aged 6-7 years, was less sensitive than the community-based survey, which tested people aged ≥8 years, in identifying ongoing transmission. However, the school-based survey was more specific in identifying areas of ongoing transmission. The study also found that the school-based survey was less efficient than the community-based survey in identifying areas of ongoing transmission. The study recommends that future surveillance strategies should include testing of people aged ≥8 years and should consider using a combination of different surveillance strategies to improve efficiency and sensitivity in detecting ongoing transmission.
We have identified a regulatory mechanism involving cyp19a1a and bmp15 that is required for female sexual development and maintenance in zebrafish. cyp19a1a, which encodes a key enzyme in estrogen production, and bmp15, which encodes a key signaling molecule in ovarian development, are both required for oogenesis and oocyte maturation in zebrafish. We have also identified a role for cyp19a1a in modulating the rate of ovarian follicle progression. Our results indicate that cyp19a1a and bmp15 are components of a common regulatory pathway that controls female sexual development in zebrafish.
The work presented in this article is focused on the regulation of gene expression by a group of transcriptional regulators known as Hox proteins. Specifically, the authors investigate the mechanisms by which Hox proteins regulate the activity of target genes during development. They do this by examining the regulation of the rpr gene, which encodes a protein involved in the formation of the maxillary jaw. The authors identify a number of additional transcriptional regulators that work in conjunction with Hox proteins to regulate rpr gene expression. They show that these additional regulators bind directly to specific regions of the rpr gene in a process that is independent of Hox proteins. The authors also demonstrate that these additional regulators are recruited to specific regions of the rpr gene by Hox proteins. This work provides new insights into how Hox proteins regulate target gene expression during development.
We present a genetic model for the P-loop-dependent activation of the NB-LRR protein ADR1-L2, an autoactive 'helper' NB-LRR protein that does not require a pathogen effector for its activation. We identify genetic suppressors of its autoactive phenotype, which are required for ADR1-L2D484V activity, and are implicated in two separate signaling pathways. One pathway requires EDS1 and leads to SA accumulation, while the other pathway requires LSD1 and is antagonistic to SA accumulation. Thus, EDS1 and LSD1 are both required for ADR1-L2D484V activity. Our results are consistent with a model in which LSD1 regulates EDS1, which in turn regulates SA accumulation. The genetic components identified in this study can be used to further dissect the mechanisms underlying P-loop-dependent activation of ADR1-L2, and to understand how autoactive NB-LRRs function in plants.
The article "A comparison of transcriptional silencing in suvh2/9 and morc6 mutants" by Arenas-Lobato et al. is a well-written and comprehensive analysis of the role of SUVH2/9 and MORC6 in transcriptional silencing in Arabidopsis. The authors use a combination of molecular biology, genetics, and bioinformatics approaches to analyze the impact of these two genes on transcriptional silencing, DNA methylation, and chromatin remodeling in Arabidopsis. They find that SUVH2/9 and MORC6 work together in a mechanism that is distinct from the RdDM pathway to silence transcription in methylated regions of the genome. The article provides a useful overview of the current state of knowledge on the role of these two genes in transcriptional silencing, and will be of interest to researchers working on chromatin remodeling and epigenetics in Arabidopsis.
In this study, the authors investigate the buffering capacity of Hsp90 against deleterious mutations in the zebrafish pax6b gene, which is involved in eye development. The authors show that Hsp90 chaperones can limit the severity of the eye phenotype caused by pax6b mutations and that some pax6b mutations are more sensitive to Hsp90 depletion. The authors also investigate the underlying mechanisms of Hsp90 buffering, finding that pax6b mutations can reduce the stability of Pax6b protein, and that Hsp90 can bind to these mutant proteins to prevent their degradation. These findings suggest that Hsp90 may play a role in protecting against developmental disorders caused by mutations in genes involved in early embryonic development.
Protein N-termini are commonly known as important protein features in many organisms, as they can reveal information about the protein's origin, function, and processing. In Drosophila melanogaster, a well-studied insect model, most of the N-termini were found to be fully acetylated. However, a few proteins, such as hyrax and CG29316, were found to have a partial acetylation status, meaning that they were missing one or more acetylated N-termini. The acetylation status of the proteins was found to be associated with their biological function, suggesting that N-terminal acetylation may have a functional role in the process of protein biogenesis. Furthermore, acetylation of the N-terminus of proteins was found to be independent of the methionine content of the protein's amino acid sequence, as well as the N-terminal sequence. These findings suggest that the N-terminal acetylation status is a feature of the protein itself, rather than being dependent on its amino acid sequence. Overall, these results provide a comprehensive understanding of the N-terminal acetylation status in Drosophila melanogaster, and suggest that this feature may have an important role in the biogenesis of proteins.
We have identified and characterized nine strong activating mutations in the yeast RNA polymerase III (RNAP III) CTD region that activate its transcription initiation rate. These mutations have a synergistic effect, increasing RNAP III initiation 4-fold. The mutations increase RNAP III elongation rate and reinitiation rate. One mutation, C1-E850K, is the strongest activator of RNAP III initiation and reinitiation, while two other mutations, C1-E853Q and C1-E855G, are the strongest activators of RNAP III elongation rate. These mutations increase the production of RNAP III-dependent tRNA reporter genes in vivo without affecting their stability. These results are consistent with the kinetic coupling model of transcription initiation, elongation and termination by RNAP III.
This study presents a new algorithm, FoldX, which predicts the binding specificity of SH2 domains, a class of intracellular signaling proteins. The prediction accuracy of the algorithm is tested against known binding preferences of SH2 domains in vitro and in vivo. The algorithm is shown to be as accurate as existing methods based on experiment, suggesting its potential for genome-wide predictions of protein-protein interactions. The study provides a resource for further experimental testing of predicted interactions.
We present the identification of a novel protein disaggregase, CyP40, which solubilizes tau fibrils in vitro in the absence of ATP. We identified CyP40 as a PPIase, a protein family known for its disaggregase activity, and characterized its disaggregase activity against tau fibrils and other amyloids in vitro. We also show that CyP40 overexpression in vivo reduces tau-mediated cognitive decline, improves spatial memory, and reduces tau pathology in transgenic mice. Our findings suggest that CyP40 may be a promising therapeutic target for tauopathies such as AD.
The dynamical behavior of a Cyanobacteria filament under external driving is studied using a stochastic model based on the reaction to nitrogen deprivation. The system is composed of three regulatory proteins, NtcA, HetR, and PatS, that regulate each other and induce the development of heterocysts. The model shows that the stable fixed points of the system are bistable and lead to the formation of heterocysts. The model is extended to a filament of cells, and the diffusion of regulatory proteins is incorporated. Simulations show that heterocysts develop in a semiregular pattern, and that the distance between two consecutive heterocysts follows a Γ-distribution.
Onchocerciasis is a disease caused by tiny worms that live in the eyes and skin. These worms are spread by black flies that live near water. Onchocerciasis can cause blindness, skin lesions, and other health problems. To fight against onchocerciasis, a program called Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin (CDTI) has been implemented in many countries, including Cameroon. The goal of the program is to give everyone in the community a drug called ivermectin to kill the worms. However, the success of the program depends on how many people actually take the drug. To understand why some people don't take the drug, a study was done in Cameroon to look at the beliefs and perceptions of people about the program and the disease, as well as how likely they are to take the drug. The study found that people who had negative perceptions of the program and of the drug were less likely to take it. The study also found that the most common misconception about the disease was that it is caused by not washing properly. The study suggests that local health authorities should work to improve people's perceptions of the program and the drug, as well as correct misconceptions about the disease, in order to increase adherence to the program and reduce the spread of the disease.
In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of DNA methylation and genetic variants in the regulation of protein biomarkers associated with cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases. We used data from a cohort of 743 individuals who had both DNA methylation and plasma protein biomarker data available. We first performed an epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) to identify CpG sites that were significantly associated with 47 protein biomarkers. We then performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify genetic variants that were significantly associated with the same protein biomarkers. We used Mendelian Randomization (MR) to determine if DNA methylation was directly affecting variation in biomarker levels, or if biomarkers themselves were affecting the variation in DNA methylation, and to estimate the magnitude of causal effects. Our results suggest that DNA methylation may have a causal role in regulating protein biomarkers associated with cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases. The study provides insights into the role of DNA methylation in the regulation of protein biomarkers and highlights the importance of considering the role of genetic variants in the regulation of protein biomarkers.
VZV, the virus that causes chickenpox, can also infect humans. However, when humans are infected with VZV, it can be very difficult for their immune system to clear the virus. One way that VZV can cause problems for the immune system is by inhibiting NK cells, which are a type of immune cell that is important for fighting infections and cancers. This means that VZV can make it harder for the immune system to fight the virus and may even help the virus spread more easily to other people. In this study, the authors used a technique called flow cytometry to measure the ability of NK cells to fight against VZV. They found that when NK cells are infected with VZV, they lose the ability to fight against other cells. This suggests that VZV may be using some kind of trick to avoid being killed by the NK cells. The authors also found that the ability of NK cells to fight against VZV can be restored by treating the cells with a special chemical. This suggests that it may be possible to develop treatments that can help the immune system fight against VZV and other viruses that can cause problems for the immune system.
In this study, we aimed to understand the neural mechanisms underlying motion masking, a phenomenon where the perception of moving stimuli is suppressed when they are presented simultaneously with other stimuli. We used a population coding model to simulate the activity of neurons in early visual cortex and investigated how masking affects the processing of stimuli. Our results suggest that masking is mainly caused by suppression of neurons tuned to the motion of the target stimulus, and that this suppression is likely due to predictive coding mechanisms. We also found that masking does not occur in the presence of spatial attention, feature-based attention, or other types of extra-classical receptive field effects. Our results provide new insights into the neural mechanisms underlying motion masking and have important implications for understanding the processing of visual information in early visual cortex.
Here we describe the construction of a cell-free system to study the role of Tax, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in the activation of IKK. Tax is a protein encoded by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). It is reported to mediate the activation of IKK via K63-linked ubiquitination. In order to study the role of Tax in the activation of IKK, we constructed a cell-free system that contains recombinant E2 ubiquitin ligases, the E3 ligase Tax, ubiquitin, and ATP. We purified recombinant E2 ubiquitin ligases UbcH7, UbcH2, UbcH5c, and Ubc13 from bacteria, and expressed Tax from a plasmid in mammalian cells. We then used this cell-free system to study the role of Tax in the activation of IKK. We found that Tax is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that can mediate the activation of IKK in vitro.
The effect of increasing the number of individuals released (propagule pressure) on the likelihood of successful establishment of alien populations has been studied in a range of taxa and environments. A quantitative systematic review of the literature shows that increasing propagule pressure increases the likelihood of successful establishment. This effect was consistent in both direction and size across different biological and methodological factors. Although there was evidence for some heterogeneity in effect sizes, this was primarily related to different analytical approaches. The effect was strongest when studies used univariate analyses and discrete ranges of propagule sizes. However, this was likely due to methodological issues rather than biological reasons. There was no evidence for publication bias or for the influence of particular species, locations, or analytical approaches on effect size. The propagule pressure effect was remarkably consistent in both size and shape. This suggests that this factor has universal importance for understanding and managing the invasion process. The results also have important implications for how biosecurity policy can reduce the establishment of alien species.
Inflammation is associated with an increased production of inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-8 (IL-8) . We have previously shown that Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-α) synergizes with interleukin-17 (IL-17) to increase IL-8 production by airway epithelial cells . IL-17 binds to its receptor on these cells, resulting in an increased expression of IL-8 through the activation of the AKT, NF-κB and MAPK pathways. The increased production of IL-8 by airway epithelial cells in response to the synergistic effect of TNF-α and IL-17 could contribute to chronic inflammation in lung diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . In this study, we aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which IL-17 enhances TNF-α-induced IL-8 production. We found that the transcript and protein levels of IL-8 were increased in a dose-dependent manner in response to the combination of TNF-α and IL-17, but not in response to TNF-α or IL-17 alone. We then performed transcriptome sequencing to identify the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in response to the combination of TNF-α and IL-17. We found that the DEGs in response to the combination of TNF-α and IL-17 were largely the same as those in response to TNF-α alone, except for two genes: MMP-12 and MMP-13. These genes are part of a group of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), which are a family of proteolytic enzymes that degrade the extracellular matrix (ECM) and are involved in inflammation, wound healing, and tissue remodeling. We found that the synergistic effect of IL-17 on TNF-α-induced IL-8 production was mediated by MMP-12 and MMP-13. We also found that the upregulation of MMP-12 and MMP-13 in response to the combination of TNF-α and IL-17 was mediated by the IL-17R and the NF-κB pathway. Finally, we found that the increased production of IL-8 by airway epithelial cells in response to the combination of TNF-α and IL-17 was mediated by the upregulation of MMP-12 and MMP-13. In conclusion, our study shows that the synergistic effect of IL-17 on TNF-α-induced IL-8 production is mediated by the upregulation of MMP-12 and MMP-13 via the IL-17R and the NF-κB pathway. These findings could help us to develop new therapeutic strategies to target IL-17 in lung diseases such as asthma and COPD.
We looked at the risk factors for the presence of the human infective form of trypanosomiasis, T. brucei rhodesiense, in cattle herds in two districts in Uganda. We found that the village in which the cattle lived had a strong effect on the presence of T. brucei rhodesiense in the cattle. We also found that cattle with certain characteristics, such as being in poor health, were more likely to have T. brucei rhodesiense present. These findings could help in understanding where and in what animals T. brucei rhodesiense is present, which could be useful for controlling the disease.
The nucleosome remodelling complexes (NRCs) are a family of complexes that are important for the regulation of gene expression. They are composed of multiple subunits that bind DNA and move nucleosomes along the DNA. The NRCs are important for the maintenance of genome stability, and are implicated in many diseases, including cancer. In this study, the authors use ChIP-seq to study the binding of different NRCs to DNA in S2 cells. They find that different NRCs have different binding profiles, and that NRCs bind to different regions of the genome. They also find that different NRCs have different effects on Pol II elongation.
In this manuscript, we present a novel mouse model for FSHD, D4Z4-12.5, which features 2.5 copies of a ~1.5 Mb D4Z4 repeat unit in the 3'-terminus of the DUX4 gene, causing FSHD-like features in mice, such as myotonicity, muscle atrophy, and fibrosis, similar to DUX4-overexpressing mice. This model allows us to further investigate the mechanisms underlying FSHD in a model system, and may provide a useful tool for therapeutic interventions.
This study describes the development of a quadrivalent AMA1 vaccine that covers four allelic variants of the AMA1 antigen in P. falciparum. The vaccine was tested in rabbits and found to be immunogenic and protective against multiple P. falciparum strains. The vaccine was composed of three allelic proteins, 3D7, FVO, and HB3, which were combined to create a single vaccine that covered all four allelic variants. The vaccine was also shown to be synergistic with an anti-QV mAb, 4G2, which targets a conformational epitope that is not covered by any of the individual vaccine proteins. This synergistic effect suggests that the vaccine is able to induce protective antibodies that target multiple epitopes on the AMA1 antigen. Overall, this study shows that a quadrivalent AMA1 vaccine is able to provide broad protection against multiple P. falciparum strains and that it is synergistic with an anti-QV mAb.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the APC and proteasome in the timing of spindle displacement during meiosis in the C. elegans zygote. They show that disruption of either the APC or proteasome leads to a delay in spindle displacement and that this delay can be rescued by the proteasome inhibitor flavopiridol. The authors also show that the proteasome inhibitor has no effect on anaphase onset, suggesting that spindle displacement may not be tightly regulated with anaphase onset. The study provides new insights into the timing mechanisms that regulate the movements of the spindle during meiosis in the C. elegans zygote.
We analyzed genetic data from two high-altitude human populations, Andeans from Peru and Bolivia, and Tibetans from China and Nepal, to identify candidate genes or gene regions that may have undergone positive selection due to adaptation to high altitude. We analyzed genome-wide SNP data and identified 20 candidate genes or gene regions with significant positive selection signatures (e.g., LSBL, lnRH, standardized difference of D, WGLRH). These included genes involved in mitochondrial function (MTCO1, MTCO2, MTTS1, MTTS2, MTTS3), DNA repair and replication (ERCC1, ERCC2, ERCC3, ERCC4, ERCC5), protein folding and stability (HSPA1A, HSPA1E, HSPA4L), and metabolism (SCARA5, EGFR). We also identified 17 CNPs, including one with an overlap with a candidate gene (MTCO1), and one CNV region (located in EGFR). These results provide a comprehensive overview of the candidate genes and gene regions that may have undergone positive selection in high-altitude human populations.
In this study, the authors investigate the mechanisms of DNA repair in yeast. They use a combination of genetic and molecular biology techniques to study the roles of Rad1-Rad10 and MRX-Sae2 complexes in the repair of DNA breaks induced by HO endonuclease in yeast. The authors show that the two complexes have different roles in the repair of DNA breaks and that the repair pathway depends on the length of the DNA spacer separating the two inverted DNA repeats. The authors also show that the repair of DNA breaks can be influenced by the presence of other repeats in the vicinity. Their results provide insights into the mechanisms of DNA repair in yeast and have implications for understanding the formation of genomic instability in humans.
This study demonstrates the development of a new Drosophila model to study Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms in vivo. Oral infection of Drosophila with PAO1 resulted in the formation of biofilms in the crop. Intracropal biofilms displayed similar characteristics as biofilms grown in vitro, including resistance to antibiotics. Furthermore, AMP gene expression was induced following oral infection with PAO1 , which may contribute to the host defense against biofilm formation and dissemination. The model developed in this study will aid in understanding the complex interactions between bacteria and the host during biofilm infection.
The Avpr1a gene encodes the vasopressin V1a receptor, which is involved in various social behaviors and monogamy in many species. In this study, we generated three mouse lines with different Avpr1a genotypes and investigated the expression of the V1a receptor in different brain regions. We found that the V1a receptor expression pattern in the brain is complex and that the Avpr1a genotype affects the expression of the receptor in some brain regions but not in others. Specifically, we observed differences in the expression of the receptor in the dorsal striatum, ventral pallidum, and medial amygdala between the lines with the prairie and meadow microsatellite sequences. These differences were modest, but we cannot exclude the possibility that they contribute to variations in behavior. Our study highlights the complexity of the regulation of gene expression and suggests that the microsatellite sequence of Avpr1a may not be the sole determinant of the expression pattern of this gene.
AID is a protein that helps to repair damage to DNA. The current study shows that AID can cause damage to DNA in yeast cells. This is because AID deaminates cytosines to uracils when it is bound to RNA that is being transcribed. The uracils are then repaired by a process called NHEJ. The study shows that AID-dependent damage to DNA is linked to the way that RNA is being transcribed. The RNA is transcribed in a process called transcription elongation. During transcription elongation, RNA is made and then added to the ends of the DNA. The RNA can then become twisted, or tangled, and this is called an R-loop. The study shows that AID deaminates cytosines in R-loops, which leads to the formation of uracils and the formation of DSBs that can be repaired by NHEJ. The study shows that AID-dependent damage to DNA is linked to the way that RNA is being transcribed and that R-loops are involved. This provides important insights into the way that AID helps to repair DNA damage.
The bacterium E. coli replicates its DNA in a coordinated manner, and in the process, it uses multiple proteins to ensure that the DNA is distributed equally between daughter cells. The FtsK protein is one of the key players in this process, and it transports a significant amount of DNA from the mother cell to the daughter cell. However, the timing of FtsK-mediated DNA translocation is poorly understood. Here, we used fluorescence microscopy to visualize and quantify DNA translocation mediated by FtsK in E. coli. We found that FtsK-mediated DNA translocation starts after the dissociation of ZipA, which is one of the key proteins responsible for stabilizing the Z-ring. We also found that the rate of DNA translocation increases as the constriction closes. Our findings suggest that FtsK-mediated DNA translocation occurs late in the cell cycle when the septum is close to being fully closed. This timing is essential to ensure that DNA is translocated only when the septum is sufficiently closed to prevent recombination between sister chromatids. Overall, our work provides insights into the regulation of DNA translocation in E. coli, which is essential for the proper segregation of genetic material during cell division.
Epitope selection is a crucial step in the design of evolving vaccines. The mathematical framework presented in this article allows for an optimal epitope set to be found by solving an integer linear program. The framework is flexible and can be adapted to incorporate various immunological requirements. The framework has been tested on hepatitis C virus and yields a provably optimal epitope set with higher overall immunogenicity compared to previously published methods. The optimal epitope set is obtained by maximizing the objective function, which is defined as the sum of the immunogenicities of all epitopes with respect to the given MHC alleles. The optimal epitope set is obtained in a fraction of the time required by previously published methods. The mathematical framework presented in this article provides a powerful tool for the design of evolving vaccines.
IL-7 is a growth factor that has been shown to support the replication of HIV-1 in ex vivo cultures of human T cells. In this study, we investigated the role of IL-7 in facilitating HIV-1 infection of human cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissues. We found that IL-7 enhances HIV-1 replication and promotes cell proliferation in both infected and uninfected T cells. Our findings suggest that IL-7 may play an important role in facilitating HIV-1 transmission from infected men to women. However, we also found that IL-7 promotes cell proliferation, which may increase the chance of viral replication and transmission.
This study investigated the role of small RNA pathways in the defense of mosquitoes against Zika virus (ZIKV). In addition to the exonuclease Dicer 2 (Dcr2), which is essential for the production of short RNAs, the study identified the role of the RNAi effectors Argonaute 2 (Ago2) and Piwi4 in the defense against ZIKV infection. The study demonstrated that while the knockdown of Ago2 does not lead to a significant increase in ZIKV replication, the knockdown of Piwi4 leads to an increase in ZIKV replication. The study also provided evidence for the presence of virus-derived small RNAs (vsiRNAs) and piRNA-like small RNAs in ZIKV-infected cells. The study also demonstrated that the ZIKV capsid protein inhibits the exo-siRNA pathway and enhances replication of the flavivirus SFV. The study provides insights into the defense mechanisms of mosquitoes against ZIKV infection and suggests that the RNAi pathway may play a role in the defense against ZIKV infection.
In a recent study, our team identified an unusual presentation of sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Specifically, we found that sporotrichosis caused by Sporothrix brasiliensis was associated with unusual manifestations such as erythema nodosum, erythema multiforme, mucosal involvement affecting nasal cavity or conjunctiva, and disseminated cutaneous sporotrichosis in the absence of an underlying immunosuppressive condition. Moreover, the majority of patients with hypersensitivity reactions presented with fixed cutaneous sporotrichosis. These results showed that the unusual clinical manifestations of sporotrichosis are not exclusively caused by Sporothrix schenckii, as previously reported. We also found that lesional mechanisms may be species-specific, which supports previous studies. Moreover, we demonstrated that Sporothrix brasiliensis is the primary cause of endemic sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro state, and that it responds well to itraconazole therapy. This study adds new information to our knowledge base on Sporothrix brasiliensis disease and supports the careful speciation of Sporothrix isolates to guide clinical care.
We used RNA-Seq data from 8 human tissues and 3 mouse tissues to identify novel transcripts and exons in intergenic regions. We focused on exons and transcripts that are highly expressed in only a few tissues, and may have tissue-specific functions. We found 1,499 novel exons in intergenic regions, of which 265 are predicted to be protein-coding. We also identified 1,470 novel transcripts, of which 498 are predicted to be protein-coding and have unique transcription start and stop sites. We found that most of the novel transcripts have low expression levels, but are highly enriched in a subset of tissues. These results provide evidence for the existence of many new functional exons and transcripts in the human and mouse genomes, and highlight the importance of studying gene expression in multiple tissues to fully understand the functional diversity of the genome.
In this study, we developed a protocol to engineer a more thermostable bacterial green fluorescent protein (FbFP). Firstly, the FoldX software followed by free energy calculations were used to identify stable single mutant candidates. Secondly, mutants predicted with more negative ΔΔGs were selected for experimental validation. Thirdly, more single mutants from the "hot spot" were combined to further improve the protein thermostability. The best triple mutant N107Y-N124Y-M111F increased the melting temperature by 31°C without compromising the fluorescence quantum yield. The experimental test was by no means extensive but the effectiveness of the protocol was demonstrated. The combined experimental and computational method adopted in our work adds a new tool to enhance protein thermostability, which can be extremely useful when conventional methods (e.g., directed evolution) fail.
In this study, we used two different genetic markers, mitochondrial DNA and Wolbachia, to analyze the population structure of New World sand flies that are vectors for leishmaniasis. We found that the two markers produced very different results, with mitochondrial DNA suggesting that some of the species were more closely related than previously thought, while Wolbachia suggested that they were more distantly related. We also found that one of the species we analyzed, Lu. gomezi, was infected with Wolbachia, which could have important implications for the transmission of leishmaniasis. Overall, our results highlight the importance of using multiple genetic markers when analyzing the population structure of complex species groups.
The study describes the characterization of a chromatin signaling complex at the multi-episome (ME) locus of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The ME locus is a critical promoter region that regulates the expression of HCMV genes and the replication of the viral genome. The study used a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and immunofluorescence (IF) to identify proteins that interact with the ME locus. The study found that the signaling complex consists of the transcription factors CREB and MSK1, as well as the protein kinases ERK and p38. The study also found that the activity of this complex is regulated by histone modifications and by the presence of the viral genome. The study has important implications for understanding the regulation of HCMV gene expression and replication, as well as for the development of new strategies for controlling the spread of HCMV.
The human genome contains more than 1000 ribosome biogenesis factors, many of which have important functions in ribosome biogenesis and other cellular processes. In this article, the authors describe the role of one ribosome biogenesis factor, the nucleolar protein NOL11, in development. They used Xenopus tropicalis as a model organism to investigate NOL11 function, and found that the protein is required for normal ribosome biogenesis in Xenopus embryos. In addition, they showed that the NOL11 protein is required for normal development of craniofacial cartilage in Xenopus embryos, and that loss of NOL11 in human cells results in a similar craniofacial defect. The authors conclude that NOL11 plays an important role in ribosome biogenesis and development, and that it may be involved in human congenital ribosomopathies.
In this study, we report the discovery of 24 differentially reactive antigens against leptospirosis by using a protein microarray containing the entire proteome of Leptospira interrogans serovar Copenhageni. The discovery was done by comparing the IgG reactivity of leptospirosis patient sera against the 2,421 protein antigens on the array. We found that several known and unknown proteins are differentially reactive in leptospirosis patients, and these proteins could be used as serodiagnostic markers in immunological tests. These results may contribute to the development of a more accurate and specific test for the diagnosis of leptospirosis.
The mosquito immune system is capable of mounting a robust response against the fungal parasite Beauveria bassiana (Bb), a major biocontrol agent for pest control. The study presents evidence that the mosquito immune system activates the defense response against Bb by two distinct mechanisms: a humoral mechanism, which involves the recruitment and activation of prophenoloxidase (PPO) on the surface of Bb conidia, and a cellular mechanism, which involves the recruitment of hemocytes to the site of infection. The study also demonstrates that the mosquito immune system is capable of mounting a protective response against Bb, which leads to a reduction in the growth and survival of the fungus in the mosquito hemolymph. The findings have important implications for the development of novel biocontrol strategies against mosquito-borne diseases and for understanding the complex interactions between pathogens and their hosts.
In this study, we investigated the potential of four drugs, BAF, MPA, CAS, and DNJ, as transmission-blocking agents for the mosquito-borne virus Dengue. We found that BAF, MPA, CAS, and DNJ inhibit the replication of the dengue virus in A. aegypti adult mosquitoes. BAF inhibits virus entry by blocking vATPase, while MPA suppresses virus replication by inhibiting IMPDH. In addition, we found that silencing of the vATPase subunit AAEL012819 and the IMPDH gene AAEL015337 resulted in a significant reduction in the dengue virus titer. Our findings suggest that vATPase and IMPDH are potential targets for dengue transmission-blocking agents.
This paper studies the dynamics of ion concentrations inside neurons in the context of various diseases such as seizures, status epilepticus, and stroke. The authors propose a unified mathematical model that describes the evolution of ion concentrations and the volume of the cell during these diseases. The model incorporates the effects of glial buffering, ion pumps, and leaks, as well as the dynamics of oxygen and glucose in the cell. The authors demonstrate that their model can reproduce the behavior of individual neurons observed in experiments and show that it can account for the emergence of spontaneous seizures in neuronal networks.
Here, we demonstrate that the NLRP3 inflammasome plays a key role in the induction of IL-1β and the antifungal activity of murine dendritic cells infected with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. Specifically, we show that NLRP3 inflammasome activation is mediated by Syk signaling and that K+ efflux, ROS production, lysosomal acidification, and cathepsin B release are involved in this process. We also demonstrate that IL-1β release is necessary for the antifungal activity of murine dendritic cells. Our findings suggest that manipulating NLRP3 inflammasome activation may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of paracoccidioidomycosis.
The work presented in this article investigates the interactions between the parasite Toxoplasma gondii and neurons and astrocytes in the mammalian brain. The authors used a novel mouse model that expresses Cre recombinase in the brain to tag parasites with fluorescent proteins as they enter and encyst in neurons or astrocytes. The study found that parasites primarily encyst in neurons and that astrocytes do not become infected under normal circumstances. Additionally, the study found that interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), which is produced by immune cells in response to Toxoplasma infection, is not involved in parasite encystation in the brain. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the neurological effects of Toxoplasma infection and may lead to new approaches to treating toxoplasmosis.
This paper presents a new mathematical model to describe the mechanics of a single, motile cell. The model is minimalistic, consisting of three variables representing the myosin contractility, actin growth, and cell speed, and two boundary conditions describing the actin growth and myosin contractility. The model is able to generate a variety of motile behaviors, including the well-known, streamlined shape of the keratocyte. The authors propose that the myosin contractility is the critical factor for the initiation of motility, and that the actin growth and cell speed are secondary factors. The model predicts that the cell shape is determined by the balance of forces acting on the cell, including the actin growth and myosin contractility. The authors also explore the conditions under which the cell may turn or polarize. Overall, the paper provides a new, minimalistic mathematical model for the mechanics of a single, motile cell.
The paper discusses the concept of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) and how they are important for understanding biological processes. The authors propose a new method for predicting PPIs based on the topology of a protein interaction network. The method is based on a graph embedding technique that converts the protein interaction network into a low-dimensional space, which allows for easy prediction of PPIs. The authors present their method and show that it outperforms existing methods in terms of sensitivity and specificity. They also show that their method can be applied to large-scale network experiments.
In this study, the authors show that bi-directional transcription of a repeat-containing gene, such as the DM1 repeat expansion gene, can lead to toxicity in flies. They find that the triplet repeat-derived siRNAs generated from the bi-directional transcription are responsible for the toxicity. They also show that the toxicity can be enhanced when the CTG and CAG repeats are expanded. Their findings suggest that bi-directional transcription of repeat-containing genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of repeat expansion diseases.
Pectobacterium wasabiae is a plant pathogen that causes soft rot disease on a variety of plants. In this study, the complete genome sequence of Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193 was determined using next-generation sequencing technology. The genome assembly was improved by using gap-closing strategies and by manually curating contigs. The genome of Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193 was found to be 5,366,390 bp with an average G+C content of 57.46% . The number of predicted protein-coding genes was 5,100 and the number of tRNA genes was 33. The genome contains many IS elements and putative genes related to the phosphate metabolism, biofilm formation and oxidative stress response. Genome comparison of Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193 with Pectobacterium wasabiae CFBP 3304T and other Pectobacterium species revealed that SCC3193 is a novel strain of P. wasabiae. In addition, 49 genes were found to be missing in Pectobacterium wasabiae CFBP 3304T compared to Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193. Six putative virulence determinants were identified in Pectobacterium wasabiae SCC3193. Inactivation of the sirB locus, which is involved in the regulation of type III effectors, resulted in the decreased ability of SCC3193 to cause disease on plants. These results provide insights into the genetic basis of virulence in Pectobacterium wasabiae and suggest that this species may have evolved novel strategies to cause disease on plants.
In this study, the authors used quantitative cICAT analysis to identify mitochondrial proteins in response to mtDNA depletion in ρ0 cells. They performed cICAT analysis on ρ0 and ρ+ cells, and found that 313 down-regulated proteins, 201 up-regulated proteins, and 607 not significantly changed proteins were differentially regulated in response to mtDNA depletion. The authors then constructed a human mt protein functional network by integrating physical and functional link information from the STRING database. They identified 13 functional modules, and found that the abundance of proteins in each module was significantly different in ρ0 and ρ+ cells. Overall, this study provides valuable information on the mt protein regulatory network and its response to mtDNA depletion, which may contribute to the understanding of mitochondrial biology and disease.
We developed an analytical theory for protein synthesis by ribosomes. Our approach can be used to deduce the kinetic parameters of the process from experimental data. We derived explicit expressions for important quantities of the elongation process that are relevant to protein synthesis, including the accommodation times and the processing times. The accommodation time is the time it takes for the ribosome to fully bind a tRNA. The processing time is the time it takes for the ribosome to process the tRNA during the peptide bond synthesis. The theory is based on the Markov process for ribosome elongation, which involves multiple transitions between different states of the system. Our approach is general and can be applied to other Markov processes as well. The kinetic parameters obtained from our theory can be used to evaluate the performance of different ribosomes and to study the effects of environmental conditions on protein synthesis.
In the study, the researchers investigated the mutation and recombination rates of the bacterial species Helicobacter pylori. They used a mathematical model to estimate the rates of mutation and recombination over a short period of time. The model takes into account the number of mutations and recombinations observed in the genome of the bacteria, as well as the length of the segments of DNA that are recombined. The researchers also used Bayesian analysis to estimate the rates of mutation and recombination. They found that the rate of recombination was approximately 5 times higher than the rate of mutation, and that the average length of the segments of DNA that are recombined is approximately 1,000 nucleotides.
MELANOPSIN-DRIVEN VISION IN THE CENTRAL VISUAL SYSTEM: PRECISION AND GENERALITY  Melanopsin is a rare type of retinal photopigment that is expressed exclusively in a small number of photoreceptor cells called melanopsin-containing ganglion cells (mRGCs). Although melanopsin plays an important role in circadian and pupillomotor responses, it is not clear how it influences vision. Here, we use a combination of anatomical and physiological approaches to examine the functional significance of melanopsin in the central visual system. We find that melanopsin contributes to the firing of a substantial proportion of thalamic neurons. These thalamic neurons have a sustained response to light, in addition to the more classical transient response, which is normally dominated by rod and cone inputs. This sustained response is dependent on melanopsin and its contribution to the tonic firing of these thalamic neurons is proportional to the intensity of the ambient light. Thus, melanopsin appears to be a major source of tonic visual input. Our data also suggest that melanopsin may contribute to spatial vision, by setting the tonic firing rate of a substantial proportion of thalamic neurons. Together, these findings reveal a previously unknown role for melanopsin in visual processing and highlight the importance of studying this rare type of photoreceptor.
The study presented by Kopylov et al. is focused on the humoral immune response in HIV-1 infected individuals. The authors have developed a novel protein microarray to study the antibody responses against a broad spectrum of antigens. The microarray includes antibodies against bacterial and fungal antigens, as well as food antigens, and was used to study antibody responses in HIV-1 infected individuals with different levels of CD4+ T cell counts. The authors found that HIV-1 infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts had higher levels of IgM and lower levels of IgG antibodies against several bacterial and food antigens compared to HIV-1 infected individuals with higher CD4+ T cell counts. Additionally, the authors found that HIV-1 infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts had higher levels of IgM and lower levels of IgG antibodies against LPS derived from E. coli and S. typhi compared to HIV-1 infected individuals with higher CD4+ T cell counts. The authors also found that HIV-1 infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts had lower levels of IgA antibodies against several food antigens compared to HIV-1 infected individuals with higher CD4+ T cell counts. The authors propose that the humoral immune response in HIV-1 infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts is impaired, which may contribute to the development of chronic inflammation and disease progression in HIV-1 infection. Overall, the study provides important insights into the humoral immune response in HIV-1 infected individuals, which may have important implications for the development of new therapies to improve immune function in HIV-1 infection.
Our paper explores the dynamics of populations in saturated environments where species survive only due to episodic catastrophic events. We show that such systems exhibit a multimodal distribution of population sizes with multiple peaks, a broadly scaled tail of the most abundant species, and diversity waves, in which species with large population sizes collapse and are replaced by smaller populations. We show that the multiplicity of peaks and the broadness of the tail of the most abundant species are robust features of our model that are preserved across variants with different dynamics. We also provide an overview of related models and data from diverse biological and economic systems. Our work provides a general framework for understanding population dynamics driven by large-scale episodic catastrophic events.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of tumbling angle in the chemotactic behavior of E. coli. They use a combination of experimental data and computer simulations to demonstrate that the angle of tumbling is not random, but rather depends on the number of motors involved in the tumble. They suggest that the chemotaxis system of E. coli adjusts the tumbling angle to optimize its chemotactic performance. The authors conclude that their findings provide a new mechanism for the regulation of chemotactic behavior, and suggest that similar mechanisms may be at work in other peritrichously flagellated bacteria.
This study investigates the role of Stat3 signaling in TEC development and homeostasis. It shows that the absence of Stat3 results in disorganized medullary regions and a severe reduction in mTEC cellularity. These findings suggest that Stat3 activation plays an indispensable role in medullary region formation and mTEC homeostasis. Furthermore, the study shows that the absence of Stat3 leads to an increased number of immature mTECs and a reduction in the frequency of cleaved caspase 3 positive cells, indicating that Stat3 activation is required for mTEC maturation and survival. Overall, this study provides important insights into the mechanisms underlying TEC development and homeostasis.
The RNA molecules, which do not code for proteins, are called non-coding RNAs. These RNAs are important regulators of gene expression in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The present study reports the discovery of several novel non-coding RNAs in Clostridium difficile, a spore-forming bacterium, which causes diarrhea in humans. These RNAs include 56 intergenic RNAs, 52 transfer RNAs, 12 ribosomal RNAs, 8 riboswitches, 8 antisense RNAs, 5 cis-antisense RNAs and 4 CRISPR arrays. The results indicate that many of these RNAs are involved in various cellular processes including metabolism, motility, biofilm formation, DNA repair and virulence. The identification of these RNAs may help in understanding the complex regulatory networks in C. difficile and other spore-forming bacteria.
In this study, the authors investigated the role of the nucleotidyl transferase enzyme GLD-2 in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. They found that GLD-2 is an essential host factor for HCV infection and replication in human hepatocytes. They also showed that GLD-2 is required for viral miRNA-dependent gene repression. The authors propose that GLD-2 may be a potential target for antiviral therapy against HCV.
A new study found that African lions have a peak in the age prevalence of infection with a parasite called Trypanosoma brucei s.l. that causes sleeping sickness in humans. The study found that this peak is due to the development of acquired immunity, which is the ability of the body to fight off a disease after being infected with it. The study also found that some species of trypanosomes can cause clinical tolerance in humans, meaning that they can carry the parasite without getting sick. However, this tolerance does not necessarily mean that the parasite is harmless or that it will not cause disease in other animals. The study provides evidence of acquired immunity to trypanosomes in wild animals, which could help us understand how to develop effective vaccines against the disease.
In this study, we use a mathematical model of thrombin generation to explore how different anticoagulants affect thrombin generation dynamics. We model a coagulation cascade reaction that results in thrombin generation and then investigate how various anticoagulant strategies affect this cascade. Specifically, we use mathematical models to understand how thrombin inhibitors such as antithrombin III and thrombin activators like tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) affect the dynamics of thrombin generation. We also explore how the effects of these agents change depending on the stage of the coagulation cascade. Our study provides a quantitative framework for understanding the effects of thrombin inhibitors and activators on coagulation dynamics, which can help guide the development of new anticoagulant therapies.
The article describes the fitting of a mathematical model to time series data from a variety of phage–bacteria interaction experiments. The model is based on the simplest possible approach to phage–bacteria interactions, including only a few parameters that represent the key biological features of the system. The model provides a good fit to the data, and the fitted values of the parameters are consistent with observations made in previous studies. The results suggest that phage therapy might be improved by altering the dose of phages or by adjusting the timing of the phage release. The article also discusses some possible biological mechanisms that might explain the observed trends in the data.
This study describes the identification, characterization and functional role of the toll-like receptor (TLR) in the snail Biomphalaria glabrata, a molluscan intermediate host for the parasite Schistosoma mansoni. The TLR was identified via a peptide screen of B. glabrata haemocyte surface proteins using liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS analysis). Haemocytes were isolated from 10 M-line and 10 BS-90 strain B . glabrata snails by the head-foot retraction method and immediately mixed 1:1 with chilled 2x Sterile Snail Saline ( SSS ). The cells were then centrifuged for 10 minutes at 10 , 000 x g . The supernatants were aspirated and the haemocytes were resuspended in 0 . 5 mL 1x SSS . The haemocytes were then sonicated 5 times using 30-second pulses , interspersed with 3-second breaks . Protein concentration was assessed using a Qubit ( Life Technologies ) following the manufacturers protocols . Equal amounts of isolated haemocyte membrane proteins were digested and labelled following the iTRAQ manufacturer’s protocols ( Applied Biosystems ) . 100 μg solutions of each haemocyte population were precipitated using chilled acetone and stored at -20°C for 3 hours . The samples were then centrifuged at 20 , 000 x g for 45 minutes before resuspension in 20 μL of supplied dissolution buffer . Samples were then processed using the supplied reducing/denaturing kits and cysteines were blocked prior to digestion of the membrane proteins using 1μg/μL sequencing grade trypsin ( Promega ) overnight at 37°C . Digested protein samples were then labelled with iTRAQ reagents 114 ( M-line haemocytes ) and 117 ( BS-90 haemocytes ) following the manufacturers protocols . Upon completion of the labeling procedure , the samples were combined and sent for LC-MS/MS analysis . Peptides identified during analysis were initially compared to a custom Mascot database comprised of known proteins and predicted transcript translations from B . glabrata , Lottia gigantica , and Aplysia californica . If no matches were found using this approach , peptide fragments were used in a BlastP search of the GenBank database in order to find the match with the highest amino acid identity . Differential abundance of the membrane proteins between haemocytes of M-line or BS-90 snails was measured as a ratio of the 114:117 labels associated with each analyzed spectra peak . Peptides relevant to BgTLR , particularly the TIR domain , were used to design primers for rapid amplification of cDNA ends ( RACE ) PCR ( Table 1 ) . RACE successfully amplified the complete BgTLR transcript , which was sequenced and confirmed to be expressed by B . glabrata using RT-PCR . Quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qPCR ) was used to measure BgTLR expression patterns in schistosome-challenged and control snails . Resistant ( BS-90 ) and susceptible ( M-line ) snails were exposed individually to ~5 miracidia in 12-well plates . Five snails were collected at selected time points ( 0 , 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 hours and 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 8 , 16 , and 35 days post challenge ) that represent important milestones in the life cycle of S . mansoni , and encompass the time from miracidia infection to cercarial shedding in the snail . RNA was extracted from whole snails using a commercial spin column-based kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions ( Life Technologies ) . RNA concentration was determined using a UV/visible spectrophotometer and 1 μg was used for first strand cDNA synthesis . The cDNA was diluted five-fold and 5 μL was used as template in qPCR using primers specific for BgTLR and B . glabrata β-actin ( Table 1 ) , and a dye-based detection system ( Quanta Biosciences ) . Primers were used at final concentrations of 0 . 6 μM in a reaction volume of 25 μL . The B . glabrata β-actin gene was used as endogenous control . Snails were confirmed to be S . mansoni positive or negative using a qPCR assay ( S4 Fig ) with primers [87] targeting the parasite glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( GAPDH ) gene . All quantitative PCRs were performed on the ABI 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system ( Applied Biosystems ) using the following thermo cycling conditions: initial hold at 95°C for 10 minutes , followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 15 seconds and 60°C for 1 minute , with data collection every cycle . Specificity for the qPCR amplicons was confirmed by continuous melt curve analysis . The relative expression of TLR was calculated using the delta-delta cycle threshold method ( ΔΔCt ) . In order to generate values for relative expression of TLR transcript normalized to time 0-hour , the cycle threshold values ( Ct ) for β-actin were subtracted from TLR Ct for the same sample to generate ΔCt values for all samples . Then mean ΔCt for time 0-hour was subtracted from those of the other time points of the same snail strain and treatment to generate ΔΔCt values . Relative quantification ( RQ ) values were derived from ΔΔCt values using the formula 2-ΔΔCt . Juvenile snails ( ~ 8 mm shell diameter ) were injected with a cocktail of 27-mer siRNA oligonucleotides designed to specifically target 4 different regions of the BgTLR transcript . The oligonucleotide sequences were unique to the BgTLR used in this study ( S2 Fig ) and their specificity was confirmed through qPCR amplifying the three sequences representing transcripts with highest shared nucleotide identity with BgTLR ( S5 Fig ) . The oligonucleotide mix was suspended in Xfect transfection reagent ( Clone Tech ) in order to enhance delivery and 10–20 μL was injected directly into the snail haemocoel at an approximate final concentration of 6 nM , which was determined by estimating the volume of haemolymph within the snail . Control snails received siRNA oligonucleotides targeting the green fluorescent protein ( GFP ) . Sequences for siRNA oligonucleotides are shown in Table 2 . SiRNA-mediated knockdown of BgTLR was demonstrated in both BS-90 and M-line snails without parasite challenge , and BS-90 that have been exposed to S . mansoni . Five snails were collected at 3 , 12 , 24 , 48 , 72 96 and 120 hours post-injection . RNA extraction , cDNA synthesis and qPCR were performed as described above . BgTLR knockdown was also confirmed at the protein level at the same time points by Western blot using both haemocytes isolated from BS-90 snails and using the B . glabrata embryonic ( Bge ) cell line which has haemocyte-like properties [17 , 88] . Phenotypic influence of BgTLR transcript knockdown was assessed in BS-90 snails . Snails were injected with the BgTLR-specific siRNA oligonucleotide mix and after 48 hours exposed individually to ~5 miracidia . Four weeks later , snails were assessed on a weekly basis , for cercariae shedding . The number of cercariae-producing infections was used as an assessment of the influence of TLR knockdown on the resistance phenotype . BgTLR knockdown snails were compared to BS-90 snails injected with the GFP-specific siRNA oligonucleotides , and to M-line snail controls challenged at the same time . Five BS-90 snails each were injected with siRNA targeting BgTLR or GFP ( control ) and 96 hours later , haemolymph was extracted from the snails by the head-
This study tested the presence of IgG antibodies in the blood and saliva of residents of French Polynesia against two species of Aedes mosquitoes, Ae. aegypti and Ae. polynesiensis. The study found that residents of French Polynesia had high levels of IgG antibodies against both species of mosquitoes, suggesting that they were exposed to both species. The results of this study provide useful information for understanding the immunogenicity of salivary proteins of Aedes mosquitoes and for monitoring the efficacy of vector control interventions against these mosquitoes.
This article describes the use of systems biology and metabolic modeling to understand the host-pathogen interaction in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. The authors found that Mtb strains differ in their ability to induce host cell glycolysis and that the regulation of this process is critical for the control of host cell fate. The study provides insights into the mechanisms that Mtb uses to persist within the host and the potential for therapeutic intervention.
In this study, we investigate the function of the Zip3 homolog ZHP-3 in C. elegans. We show that ZHP-3 localizes to the synaptonemal complex and that its localization is disrupted by mutations in the SUMO pathway. We find that ZHP-3 is important for chromosome disassembly and that it is required for the formation of functional chiasmata. We also observe that ZHP-3 is required for proper synaptonemal complex disassembly, which is necessary for chiasma formation. Finally, we show that the SUMO pathway is important for ZHP-3 function and that it regulates its localization.
The study is an analysis of the factors affecting the abundance of Ae . albopictus in metropolitan and suburban/rural areas in Rome (Italy). The study was carried out using data from 84 sticky traps located in 21 stations along a 70 km-transect across and beyond the most urbanized and densely populated metropolitan area of Rome. Two climatic variables were considered, temperature and rainfall, and two socio-environmental variables, vegetation cover and environment. The analysis revealed that high adult abundance was on average associated with highly anthropized habitats in both environments. Moreover, high adult abundance was also associated with high vegetation cover in the Metropolitan environment but not in the Sub-Urban/Rural one. Finally, results showed a bimodal mosquito seasonal population dynamics, characterized by a first peak during the last weeks of August and a second peak in the first week of October. The first peak was associated with the accumulated LST at Lag 1 and the accumulated rainfall at Lag 3, while the second peak was associated with the accumulated rainfall at Lag 4 and the mean LST at the week of sampling.
The study describes the effects of four different cholesterol-interfering drugs on the bacillary envelope of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium bovis BCG. The drugs used are MβCD, cyclosporin A, cytosine arabinoside, and methyl-β-cyclodextrin. The study found that MβCD and cyclosporin A significantly reduced the density of the mycobacterial envelope, while cytosine arabinoside and methyl-β-cyclodextrin had little effect. Additionally, the study found that MβCD and cyclosporin A inhibited the growth of both mycobacterial species, while cytosine arabinoside and methyl-β-cyclodextrin had little effect on growth. The study suggests that cholesterol is an essential component of the mycobacterial envelope, and that targeting cholesterol could be a potential therapeutic strategy for treating tuberculosis.
In this study, the authors propose a new approach to analyze the bifurcation diagrams of the Wilson-Cowan model, which is a classic model of neural activity. The authors use the method of Lyapunov exponents to determine the bifurcation diagrams and their codimension, which is the number of parameters needed to specify a bifurcation point. The authors found that for the weak-inhibition regime, the bifurcation diagrams are qualitatively the same for different values of the synaptic weights, but that for the strong-inhibition regime, the bifurcation diagrams change dramatically for different values of the synaptic weights. The authors also found that for the strong-inhibition regime, there is a bifurcation point at which the network changes from a stable state to an oscillatory state, and that the location of this bifurcation point depends on the synaptic weights. The authors conclude that the bifurcation diagrams of the Wilson-Cowan model are useful for understanding the behavior of neural networks and for designing novel neural systems.
This study found that viable Leishmania parasites are present in blood monocytes, tonsil swabs, normal skin, and lesions of patients with dermal leishmaniasis. Real-time PCR of 7SLRNA transcripts, which are abundant in the cytoplasm and have short half-life, allowed the detection of live parasites in lesion aspirates and in the blood and skin of patients without active disease. This study confirms the dissemination of Leishmania parasites in patients with cutaneous disease and provides evidence that the prevalence of parasites in the skin of patients with active disease may extend to subclinical infection.
We present a computational analysis of DNA replication timing in Drosophila. We performed a genome-wide study of the relationship between DNA replication timing and chromatin structure, using publicly available data. We found that a simple linear model that combines chromatin features, especially histone modifications, predicts DNA replication timing with high accuracy. We used a novel machine learning approach to select the most important chromatin features for predicting replication timing, and we identified a set of features that are predictive of replication timing in both S2 and Bg3 cell lines. We also developed a simplified model that uses only a subset of the most important chromatin features to predict DNA replication timing in Drosophila. Our results provide insights into the relationship between chromatin structure and DNA replication timing, and they highlight the importance of histone modifications in this relationship.
We used full-genome sequencing data for Dengue virus (DENV) serotypes 1, 2, and 3 to understand the dynamics of their spread in Brazil. We found that each serotype has multiple lineages and that each lineage has been introduced to Brazil at different times from the Caribbean. We also found that the introduction of a new lineage is followed by a peak in incidence, and that DENV is introduced to Brazil via air travel. Our study highlights the importance of air travel in the spread of DENV and the need for increased surveillance to detect new introductions.
We used a feedforward model to study the effect of the RF center-surround structure on the correlation between the activity of ELL pyramidal neurons. We found that the correlation depends on the size and gain of the RF surround and can be negative or positive depending on the sign of the RF center-surround correlation. The correlation has a negligible effect on the decoding of stimuli when the RF center-surround correlation is weak and the stimulus is weak. However, when the RF center-surround correlation is strong, the correlation has a positive effect on the decoding of stimuli when the stimulus is strong. We also found that the correlation has a negative effect on the decoding of stimuli when the RF center-surround correlation is strong and the stimulus is weak.
Here is a summary of the provided content: * The authors investigate the impact of correlations between tuning curves on the information encoded by a population of neurons. * They introduce the Information Firing Rate (IFR) and the Information Mutual Information (IMI) as information coding metrics for the population. * The authors provide a theoretical analysis of the impact of correlations on IFR and IMI, and derive conditions under which correlations can improve the coding performance. * They also provide an experimental study using neural recordings in visual cortex of macaque monkeys, which confirms the theoretical predictions.
We found that P . aeruginosa supernatant enhances S . aureus antibiotic killing through a mechanism involving HQNO production. This effect is not observed with the S . aureus supernatant. Furthermore, the P . aeruginosa supernatant increases the toxicity of the antibiotic vancomycin in a LasA-dependent manner. These results suggest that P . aeruginosa has a unique ability to enhance S . aureus killing by antibiotics, which may be exploited to develop novel therapeutic approaches against these difficult to treat bacteria.
Dengue virus is known to cause thrombocytopenia and platelet dysfunction in patients. The mechanisms of thrombocytopenia in dengue infection is poorly understood, but we show in this study that the increase in VWF binding to platelets is a likely mechanism of platelet clearance in dengue infection. We also show that VWF-mediated platelet clearance is associated with the loss of platelet sialic acid residues. This study suggests that inhibition of VWF binding to platelets or of the activation of platelets might be a novel therapeutic option for dengue-associated thrombocytopenia.
In this paper, we have explored the unusual genomic feature of bidirectional promoters, which are characterized by two transcription start sites within 1,000 base pairs (bp) of each other. This feature is found in more than 16,000 protein-coding genes in humans. We have shown that bidirectional promoters are associated with DNA repair genes and genes implicated in breast and ovarian cancer, and we have mapped them into a co-expression network. We have found that these genes are enriched in shared ETS binding sites, which are thought to play a role in the regulation of gene expression. We have also shown that the expression of these genes is co-regulated in a subset of the 79 tissues in the Novartis GNF human tissue arrays. The presence of bidirectional promoters in these genes suggests a mechanism by which regulatory disturbances could affect similar sets of genes as do mutations. This finding has important implications for understanding the molecular basis of cancer.
We used RNA-seq data from 5 species of flies with independently evolved sex chromosomes to compare their expression patterns across the genome. We found that all of these species had highly sex-biased expression, but that the patterns varied between species and tissues. In addition, we found that these species had different numbers of sex-linked genes, suggesting that sex chromosome differentiation can occur in a variety of ways. These findings highlight the importance of studying diverse taxa in order to gain a complete understanding of the mechanisms underlying sex chromosome evolution.
The Zika virus (ZIKV) is a mosquito-borne pathogen that was first identified in Uganda in 1947. It is a member of the Flaviviridae family, which also includes viruses such as dengue and yellow fever. Since its discovery, ZIKV has been associated with several outbreaks, particularly in the Pacific region. In recent years, ZIKV has been linked to an increase in the incidence of babies born with microcephaly, a condition characterized by abnormally small head size. This study aimed to investigate whether there is an association between ZIKV infection and microcephaly in babies born in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012.
This study aimed to identify sources of Mycobacterium ulcerans (MU) infection in endemic Buruli ulcer (BU) disease communities in Ghana using variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) typing and phylogenetic analysis. The study identified four MU genotypes (W, X, Y, and Z) in both humans and the environment, and three additional genotypes (A, B, and E) in the environment. The study found that BU patients from all communities were infected with MU from the same water body sources. These findings suggest that MU transmission is linked to the risk environment, and that small mammals may be susceptible to MU infection and could act as reservoirs. Overall, this study provides evidence for the "One Health" concept in the context of BU, highlighting the importance of the interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental health.
This study analyzes patterns in the introduction of non-native bird species across the globe and the factors that may have influenced those patterns. The study found that the introduction of non-native bird species has been increasing over time and that some regions have been more affected than others. The study also found that several factors, including human activity, may have influenced the patterns of bird introductions.
The ribosome biogenesis pathway is a complex process that involves many proteins and RNA molecules. The ribosomal proteins are the building blocks of the ribosome, which is responsible for translating the genetic code into proteins. The ribosomal proteins are also involved in many other processes in the cell, such as gene regulation and apoptosis. The rRNA molecules are essential components of the ribosome, and are responsible for catalyzing the peptide bond synthesis that occurs during translation. The rRNA molecules are also involved in many other processes in the cell, such as cellular signaling and gene regulation. In this study, we describe the effects of a point mutation in the UBF gene on ribosome biogenesis and ribosomal protein function. UBF is a component of the UBF-RPS3 complex, which is responsible for recruiting ribosomal proteins to the rDNA during ribosome biogenesis. We found that the UBF-RPS3 complex is unable to recruit the ribosomal proteins to the rDNA in the presence of the mutation. This results in a decrease in the number of ribosomes in the cell, which ultimately leads to a decrease in protein synthesis. We also found that the mutation affects the function of several ribosomal proteins, including RPI, RPF1, RPF2, and RPL3. The mutation causes these proteins to accumulate in the nucleolus, rather than being exported to the cytoplasm to assemble the ribosome. This results in a decrease in the number of functional ribosomes in the cell, which ultimately leads to a decrease in protein synthesis. Our results provide important insights into the mechanisms of ribosome biogenesis and ribosomal protein function, and highlight the importance of the UBF-RPS3 complex in these processes.
Wg signaling is a key regulator of tissue patterning in the adult intestine. The tethered Wg protein that is produced from the endogenous gene retains the ability to activate Wg target gene expression at levels equivalent to or greater than that induced by wild-type Wg, but within a limited spatial range. This long-range action of Wg is required for normal intestinal patterning, and is revealed by the phenotypes of flies expressing Wg pathway inhibitors in the intestinal epithelium. These findings support the requirement for the long-range action of Wg in tissue patterning and reveal its potential roles in diseases states.
The human pathogen Group A Streptococcus (GAS) is a leading cause of global infection and associated mortality and morbidity. GAS uses a specific enzyme, called streptokinase (SK), to sequester plasmin in the host's fibrinolytic system, which allows the bacteria to escape fibrin-mediated entrapment and invade the host's bloodstream. In this study, we show that SK is not essential for plasmin acquisition by GAS in the absence of host plasminogen activators (PAs). However, we demonstrate that in the absence of host PAs, SK is a prerequisite for efficient plasmin acquisition by GAS.
This study aimed to identify the function of three H. pylori proteins (CagH, CagI, and CagL) that are encoded by genes present in the bacterial cag pathogenicity island. The authors first characterized the three proteins, which are exported to the bacterial surface. They found that CagH is an adhesin that binds to gastric epithelial cells and CagL is a flagellar-associated protein that may play a role in the formation of pilus-like structures. They also found that CagI is a protein that interacts with both CagH and CagL. The authors then used genetic and biochemical techniques to study the function of these proteins in bacterial adherence and virulence. They found that the cagL gene is essential for bacterial adherence to gastric epithelial cells and virulence in mice. They also found that the cagI gene is important for bacterial adherence but not for virulence. Furthermore, the authors found that the cagH gene is dispensable for bacterial adherence and virulence. The results of this study provide important insights into the function of these proteins in H. pylori virulence and could help identify new targets for the development of bacterial adherence inhibitors.
In order to develop effective vaccines against bovine tuberculosis (bTB), it is important to identify immune-related proteins that can be used as markers to predict protection. This study is a comprehensive analysis of gene expression in PBMC from cattle vaccinated with BCG and challenged with M. bovis. The results revealed that IL-22, which is induced by BCG vaccination, is a key marker of protection against bTB. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms of vaccine-induced protection against bTB and may lead to the development of new vaccines.
Nematode intestinal cells assemble a new microtubule organizing center (MTOC) during embryonic development, which is distinct from the one at the centrosome in mitotic cells. This new MTOC is necessary for intestinal cell division, as it is the site of microtubule assembly for the spindle and for the movement of organelles and proteins along the microtubules. In order to study the function of this new MTOC, we developed a method for selectively degrading specific proteins in the intestinal MTOC while leaving the centrosomal MTOC intact. We used this method to study the function of AIR-1, a protein required for the assembly of the intestinal MTOC. We found that AIR-1 is required for the formation of the intestinal MTOC, but not for the function of the spindle during cell division. We also found that AIR-1 is required for the localization of a tubulin regulator, MZT-1, to the intestinal MTOC, but not for the localization of a spindle regulator, ZYG-9, to the centrosomal MTOC. Finally, we found that AIR-1 is not required for the localization of GIP-1, a protein required for the assembly of the intestinal MTOC, to the intestinal MTOC. These results suggest that AIR-1 plays a unique role in the formation of the new MTOC in intestinal cells, distinct from its role in mitotic cells.
In this study, we compared 11 different approaches for phasing human genomes. We found that the best results were obtained using a combination of DNA sequencing data and parental genotype information. This approach led to a more accurate and cost-effective phasing strategy than laboratory-based approaches. By using a large comprehensive reference panel, population-based strategies can be improved to the point where they surpass laboratory-based methods. Overall, we recommend using a combination of computational approaches and parental genotype information to obtain high-quality phased human genomes.
The flagellum is a whip-like appendage found on the surface of many bacteria that is used for motility, host cell invasion, and protein secretion. The type-III protein export system is a conserved mechanism found in bacteria that uses a proton gradient generated by the flagellum to drive the secretion of proteins from the cell. In this study, the authors demonstrate that the flagellar type-III export system is capable of functioning in the absence of the ATPase complex. They found that the export gate itself likely has a primary function in substrate unfolding and translocation, while the ATPase complex acts in an auxiliary capacity to energize chaperone release and substrate unfolding. The authors also identified a mechanism by which the inner membrane ring complex, the C-ring, and integral membrane components of the fT3SS can assemble normally in the absence of the ATPase complex, suggesting that the fT3SS is a highly conserved and robust system. The findings of this study have important implications for our understanding of bacterial motility, host cell invasion, and protein secretion, and may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for combating bacterial infections.
In this study, we have employed a parameter-free computational approach to survey the capacity for bistability in two-gene gene regulatory networks. We found that a significant fraction (40%) of networks are bistable, and that the remaining 60% have the capacity for multiple steady states (which may or may not be stable). We introduced a novel method called network ancestry to establish a relationship between bistable parent and descendant networks, and used this method to identify a set of minimal bistable network topologies. We then applied network ancestry to search for real-life examples of bistable networks in the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We identified twelve two-gene bistable network topologies in yeast, and provide experimental evidence for some of them. We suggest that network ancestry may be a useful approach for establishing bistability in large-scale systems, and for guiding experimental design in synthetic biology.
This study describes a new syndrome caused by mutations in the HYAL2 gene, resulting in hyaluronidase deficiency. The study provides evidence of the importance of HYAL2 in human and mouse development, and identifies a novel molecular mechanism for cor triatriatum sinister in humans. The study highlights the potential for treating this condition with enzyme-based therapies.
In the current study, the authors investigated the molecular remodeling of stereocilia tip links during development and regeneration of tip links in the inner ear of mice. They found that during development, tip links initially lack CDH23, but contain both PCDH15 and PCDH23, which undergoes refinement as the cell matures. During regeneration, tip links initially contain only PCDH15, which is then replaced with CDH23 and PCDH23. This molecular remodeling process is crucial for the development of the transduction apparatus, which is responsible for converting sound waves into electrical impulses, allowing for hearing.
Dengue virus causes a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild undifferentiated fever in dengue fever (DF) to potentially lethal severe organ dysfunction in dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) . The progression of DF to DHF is not well understood. In this study, we used untargeted mass spectrometry to identify differentially expressed serum metabolites between DF and DHF patients at critical and recovery phases of infection. A total of 29 and 8 metabolites were identified to be differentially expressed in the critical and recovery phases, respectively. Among the 29 metabolites identified in the critical phase, bile acid levels were significantly increased in DHF patients compared to DF patients. Decreased levels of uric acid, phenylalanine, docosahexaenoic acid and acylcarnitines were also identified in DHF patients. DHF patients also demonstrated significantly altered metabolic pathways compared to DF patients, including bile acid biosynthesis, fatty acid β-oxidation, purine and pyrimidine metabolism, phospholipid catabolism, tryptophan and phenylalanine metabolism. These metabolites and metabolic pathways are potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for DHF.
This study provides the first evidence of the existence of guanylate monophosphate ribonucleotidase (GMPR) in Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African trypanosomiasis. The study also describes the unique properties of the GMPR, including its localization in the glycosomes of T . brucei and its activation in the presence of monovalent cations such as potassium and sodium. The study further shows that the purine nucleotide analog ribavirin inhibits the proliferation of T . brucei in a dose-dependent manner and that the inhibition is likely due to the activity of TbGMPR. This study provides valuable insights into the biochemistry and potential therapeutic targets of T . brucei.
We have used molecular dynamics simulations to characterize the likely binding sites for benzocaine and phenytoin inside the central cavity of the NaChBac channel. We have found that both drugs bind to the hydrophobic activation gate or to the hydrophobic fenestrions. The interactions between the drugs and the channel residues are mainly non-specific hydrophobic contacts. We have also found that the energy barriers to drug entry into the channel through the fenestrions are significantly lower than those through the activation gate. This suggests that the fenestrions could serve as conduits for drug entry into the channel cavity. Our results provide a possible rationalization for the differences between tonic and use-dependent block of NaChBac.
Here, we present a method to reactivate MyD88 specifically in mature intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) in mice. We show that reactivation of MyD88 in mature IEC is sufficient to induce the expression of the antimicrobial peptide RegIIIγ and to protect against colitis and impair bacterial growth in C. rodentium infected mice. Furthermore, we demonstrate that IEC-specific MyD88 triggering is required for intestinal Th17 cell induction and protective function against C. rodentium infection. Our study highlights the importance of MyD88 signaling in mature IEC for host defense and protection against colitis.
This paper discusses the elimination of onchocerciasis, a disease caused by parasitic worms that can lead to blindness and other health problems in humans. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a strategy called mass drug administration (MDA) to eliminate the disease, which involves treating people with a drug that kills the worms. However, it is difficult to determine when to stop MDA, because the effectiveness of the drug may vary over time and in different areas. This paper used a computer model to predict the probability of eliminating onchocerciasis in different areas, based on information about the transmission of the disease, the effectiveness of the drug, and other factors. The model showed that it may be possible to eliminate onchocerciasis in some areas, but that it will likely be difficult to eliminate the disease in all areas. The paper also discussed the challenges of implementing MDA and the importance of considering local conditions when making decisions about when to stop MDA.
Prions are infectious proteins that can replicate and spread within a host organism. They have been linked to several devastating neurodegenerative diseases in humans, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). In this study, the authors investigate the effect of swainsonine (swa), a glycosylation inhibitor, on the replication of mouse-adapted variant of CJD prions (22L RML) in different cell lines. They found that while swa did not affect the replication of 22L RML prions in PK1 cells, it did in AMO10 and 2E4 cells. Interestingly, swa-resistant prions emerged in AMO10 cells after several passages, while those in 2E4 cells remained swa-sensitive. The authors also found that swa-resistant prions were more resistant to kifunensine than swa-sensitive prions. These results suggest that the sensitivity or resistance of prions to glycosylation inhibitors is dependent on the cell line used for their propagation.
Metabolic genotype space comprises all possible metabolic genotypes, where each genotype is defined by the presence or absence of a reaction. We consider a universe of 51 central carbon metabolic reactions and 1015 metabolisms. We study metabolic genotype space for different metabolism sizes and find that it is organized in a way that allows for both metabolic robustness and innovation. Specifically, we find that metabolisms of the same phenotype are connected to each other in genotype space by single reaction changes, which allows for robustness in the face of genotypic change. In addition, novel phenotypes can be reached with few or no transitions through intermediate phenotypes. We find that these properties are most pronounced in smaller metabolisms, as larger metabolisms are less connected and more sparsely distributed in genotype space. However, we note that the increase in metabolic complexity enhances both the potential for evolutionary conservation and innovation.
This study investigated the distribution, diversity, and phylogeography of the Trypanosoma dimidiata complex in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. The study analyzed genetic data from 184 insect samples and 38 human samples collected in 17 different sites across the state. The results showed that three distinct genetic groups of the T. dimidiata complex exist in Mexico, each with distinct phylogeographic patterns and associated parasite diversity. The study also found evidence of human-modified landscapes and high levels of interspecific gene flow within the T. dimidiata complex. These findings highlight the importance of considering the genetic diversity of vector populations when designing vector control strategies for T. cruzi in Mexico and the Mesoamerican region.
This study reports a quantitative analysis of the association between the occurrence of Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) and the environmental and rodent communities in Chenzhou, China. Rodent surveillance data, environmental data, and HFRS occurrence data were analyzed using a matrix approach. The results showed that the main risk of HFRS occurrence was on cultivated land and the main risk factors were Rattus norvegicus and Microtus musculus. The study also identified the effects of environmental factors on the rodent community composition. These findings could be used to improve HPS prevention and control strategies in Chenzhou and in areas with similar environmental and rodent communities.
We present here a case report of a 12-year-old boy with an exon 2 skipping mutation in the HRAS gene and a very mild form of the condition known as Costello syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a Costello syndrome patient with an exon 2 skipping mutation in the HRAS gene. We used a combination of cell lines, transfection experiments, and splicing analysis to investigate the effect of this mutation on HRAS exon 2 skipping. Our results suggest that the mutation leads to the formation of a constitutively active HRAS protein, which in turn results in decreased cell proliferation. We also found that the SSO-mediated inhibition of HRAS exon 2 skipping could reverse the effects of the mutation and restore normal cellular behavior. These findings have important implications for the understanding of Costello syndrome and may provide a new therapeutic approach for treating the condition.
This study reports the development of a novel mouse model of Mettl3 conditional knockout in neural stem cells. The authors used gene editing to remove exon 3 of Mettl3 from the Nestin-CreERT2 mouse line. They then assessed the effects of Mettl3 loss on the neural stem cell population in the cerebellum. The authors found that Mettl3 loss resulted in reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis of neural stem cells. They also found that Mettl3 loss altered the expression of genes involved in neural development and differentiation. The authors further investigated the role of Mettl3 in m6A modification, a type of RNA methylation that has been linked to neural development and disease. They found that Mettl3 loss led to decreased levels of m6A modification in neural stem cells.
The paper describes a study on the role of OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG binding in embryonic stem cells and their role in the development of the brain and other tissues. The authors used ChIP-Seq to map genome-wide binding of these transcription factors and identified many conserved binding events. They found that combinatorial binding of OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG is important for brain development and that many of the conserved binding events are associated with enhancers. The authors also found that these enhancers are highly conserved in both mouse and human ES cells and that they are associated with high H3K27ac and Mediator occupancy. The results of the study suggest that combinatorial binding of OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG is important for the maintenance of pluripotency and for the development of the brain and other tissues.
The AML1/ETO gene fusion is a characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). AML1/ETO drives leukemogenesis by affecting gene expression in AML cells. In this study, we identify AML1/ETO-binding sites in the genome of AML cells using a chromatin immunoprecipitation technique. Our results show that AML1/ETO binds to a high number of genes involved in various cellular processes, including regulation of gene expression, DNA repair, and cell adhesion. We also find that AML1/ETO expression leads to the upregulation of genes involved in cell cycle regulation and proliferation. Our findings suggest that AML1/ETO affects gene expression in AML cells by regulating the expression of genes involved in various cellular processes.
In this study, we have investigated the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in Leishmania donovani. We have identified a novel class of promoters that are activated in a stage-specific manner during the cell cycle. These promoters are located within long PTUs, which contain several genes. We have identified two novel mechanisms for transcriptional regulation of PTUs: first, differential acetylation of histone H4 by the HAT2 protein, and second, the involvement of transcription factors in regulating PTUs at specific cell cycle stages. We have also observed a correlation between transcriptional regulation of PTUs and transcriptional activation of individual genes within these PTUs. Our results suggest that the transcriptional regulation of PTUs in L. donovani is complex and involves a combination of mechanisms.
In this study, we investigated how people perceive and learn from the unpredictable behavior of others in social exchanges. We developed and compared several models of how people update their beliefs about others' intentions based on their own experiences with those others, and how this affects their decision-making. We found that participants' behavior was best explained by a hierarchical Bayesian model that takes into account both social and non-social cues, and the volatility of others' intentions. This suggests that people use a combination of simple heuristics and hierarchical reasoning to make decisions about others, and that they are able to update their beliefs about others over time. The findings of this study have important implications for our understanding of social learning and decision-making, and suggest that models that incorporate hierarchical reasoning may be useful for predicting human behavior in social contexts.
This study reports the first identification of scrub typhus in urban areas of South Korea. Using a nationwide database of reported cases of scrub typhus, the study identified the most common sites of infection within Seoul as mountainous areas, parks, residential areas, and riversides. Chigger mites were collected from Mt. Gwanak, one of the most common sites of infection in Seoul, and genetically identified as H. miyagawai carrying the Boryong strain of O. tsutsugamushi. The study also included a small cohort of confirmed cases of scrub typhus in Seoul, which were analyzed for clinical features. The cohort had mild clinical severity and few complications, and the majority of cases had no eschar. The study highlights the possibility of urban scrub typhus in densely populated areas and the importance of monitoring the distribution of chigger mites and O. tsutsugamushi strains.
HENN-1 is a protein that was previously identified as a member of a conserved family of enzymes that modify RNA nucleotides by adding a methyl group to the 2'-hydroxyl group of guanine (2'-O-methylation) . HENN-1 has been shown to be necessary for the stability of 21U RNAs, which are small, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression in the germline of C. elegans . In this study, the authors have characterized the function of HENN-1 in the C. elegans Piwi pathway, which is required for the stability of small RNAs that regulate gene expression in the germline. They have shown that HENN-1 is necessary for the stability of 21U RNAs, which are small, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression in the germline of C. elegans. They have also shown that HENN-1 is not necessary for the stability of 26G RNAs, which are another type of small RNA that regulates gene expression in the germline. The authors have also shown that HENN-1 is not necessary for the stability of 21U RNAs that target transgenes expressing endogenous piRNAs, and that HENN-1 is not necessary for the stability of 26G RNAs that target transgenes expressing endogenous piRNAs. These results suggest that HENN-1 has a specific function in the Piwi pathway, which is necessary for the stability of 21U RNAs. The authors have also shown that HENN-1 is not necessary for the stability of 26G RNAs that do not target endogenous piRNAs, suggesting that HENN-1 has a specific function in the Piwi pathway, which is necessary for the stability of 21U RNAs. Overall, this study provides important insights into the function of HENN-1 in the Piwi pathway, and highlights the specific role of HENN-1 in the stability of 21U RNAs.
In this study, we have carried out a genome-wide association study on the concentrations of 12 different N-glycans in plasma. We have identified a new genetic locus on chromosome 14 that appears to be involved in the regulation of N-glycan concentration and is likely to be associated with the expression of a gene encoding a transcription factor called hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)1α.
We have studied the role of a protein called CENPC in the assembly of maize centromeres. We found that this protein binds to DNA using a conserved DNA/RNA binding domain that is important for the stability of the complex. RNA molecules are present at centromeres in maize, and they likely play a role in stabilizing the CENPC-DNA complex. We found that a mutation in the DNA binding domain of CENPC, or the addition of the DNA binding domain of HIV integrase, can stabilize centromere assembly in maize. These findings are important for understanding the mechanisms of centromere assembly and function in plants.
The study describes the integration of genome-wide association study (GWAS) results with eQTL (expression quantitative trait loci) data from placenta tissue to identify transcripts and genes that are involved in the determination of birth weight (BW), childhood body mass index (CBMI), and childhood obesity. The authors show that placenta eQTLs are significantly enriched for GWAS hits of BW, CBMI, and childhood obesity, and identify hundreds of transcripts that are controlled by genetic variants associated with these traits. They also identify 9 genes that are likely to mediate the genetic predisposition for BW and are co-localized with BW GWAS hits. The authors conclude that their findings support the importance of the in utero environment on the development of childhood obesity and other diseases, and highlight the value of integrating eQTL and GWAS data to identify potential disease-causing genes.
Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a condition in which individuals who have recovered from kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis) develop skin lesions. PKDL is a significant obstacle in eliminating kala-azar, as the parasite is transmitted to the sandfly through the bites of PKDL patients. In this study, the prevalence of PKDL in an endemic area of West Bengal, India was determined. The prevalence of PKDL was found to be 27.47%, which is higher than previously reported rates in other parts of India, Bangladesh, and Nepal. The three diagnostic methods used in the study, including parasitological examination, rapid diagnostic test (RDT), and polymerase chain reaction (PCR), were found to have different sensitivities. The study suggests that a combination of PCR and RDT may be the best approach for the diagnosis of PKDL. The study highlights the need for early diagnosis and treatment of PKDL to achieve the goal of kala-azar elimination.
This study investigates the mechanisms underlying the synchronization of competence development in Streptococcus pneumoniae populations. Competence is a state of heightened genetic transformation that allows pneumococci to acquire new traits such as antibiotic resistance. The study found that competence development in pneumococcal populations occurs in a two-step process: initiation and propagation. The initiation step involves a small fraction of the population that activates a positive feedback loop to promote competence development in the whole population. The propagation step involves the spread of competence from cell to cell, mediated by direct cell contact. The study proposes that competence development in pneumococcal populations is regulated by a cell-contact sensing mechanism.
The paper by Hilty et al. provides a comprehensive overview of the current understanding of the processes involved in the translocation of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA into the nucleus of infected cells. The authors discuss the current models for the translocation of HPV DNA and provide a detailed description of the molecular mechanisms involved in the process. They also highlight some of the key challenges in studying the translocation of HPV DNA and suggest potential avenues for future research in this area. Overall, the paper provides a valuable resource for researchers working on the translocation of HPV DNA and highlights some of the key questions that remain to be answered about this important process.
This article presents a mathematical and statistical framework for the analysis of influenza transmission data obtained from experiments involving the use of competitive mixtures of two strains of influenza. The analysis provides a way to estimate the relative transmissibility of one strain compared to another, as well as the number of virions transmitted and that initiate infection in a successful transmission event. The method is illustrated using data from a study of the transmission of the H274Y mutant strain of influenza, which was resistant to the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir. The article also discusses some potential sources of error that may affect the data, and provides some suggestions for how to design future experiments in order to minimize the effects of these sources of error.
In this study, we identified BBX21 as a negative regulator of ABI5 that controls seed germination and seedling development. We show that BBX21 regulates ABI5 expression through direct physical interactions with both HY5 and ABI5. Our data demonstrate that BBX21 is a transcriptional repressor of ABI5 that interferes with the binding of HY5 and ABI5 to the ABI5 promoter. We also show that ABI5 directly binds to its own promoter to regulate its expression, and that BBX21 interferes with this activity to control ABI5 expression. Our results reveal a novel mechanism by which light and ABA signaling pathways converge at the ABI5 promoter to regulate seed germination and seedling development.
The researchers investigated the roles of specific Mediator subunits in C. albicans, a fungal pathogen. They found that a subunit of the complex is required for cell wall integrity and viability of the yeast. The subunit is also involved in the regulation of adhesion-associated genes that are important for biofilm formation and adhesion to host cells. The findings of this study suggest that the Mediator complex has diverse functions in C. albicans, and its subunits may be potential targets for the development of antifungal therapies.
We have analyzed a library of Pseudomonas aeruginosa transposon insertion mutants to identify genes that contribute to antibiotic tolerance in the presence or absence of biofilm formation. We find that different sets of genes are important in each condition and that the genes involved are functionally diverse. We have found genes involved in NADH dehydrogenase activity, quorum sensing, membrane permeability, and efflux pump abundance to be important in planktonic cultures with or without tobramycin. In the absence of biofilm formation, genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation activity and NADH dehydrogenase activity are important. In the presence of biofilm formation, genes involved in quorum sensing and membrane permeability are important. We have identified a subset of mutants with high fitness in biofilms in the presence of tobramycin and have found that these mutants have changes in membrane permeability, quorum sensing, efflux pump abundance, and oxidative respiration activity. Our results provide a foundation for understanding the mechanisms of antibiotic tolerance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and may lead to the development of new strategies for treating infections.
In this study, we present the R-package FAMoS, a new and flexible model selection method for the analysis of complex systems. FAMoS was designed specifically for the analysis of dynamical systems based on differential equations, which are characterized by a large model space. The method is based on a forward search and backward elimination strategy, and allows for the efficient exploration of a high-dimensional model space. The analysis of a previously published dataset on CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation dynamics in different culture conditions shows that FAMoS can effectively identify the most appropriate model structure within the model space. The FAMoS package provides several options to increase the robustness of the model selection process, including the use of prior knowledge on the underlying model structure and the consideration of different fitting methods. The results of this study highlight the potential of FAMoS for the analysis of complex systems in different areas of biology and other sciences.
We evaluated the efficacy of benznidazole (BNZ) in treating Chagas disease, which is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi (T . cruzi) parasites, by monitoring the concentration of parasite DNA and cytokines in plasma. We found that BNZ was effective in eliminating the parasite DNA in the plasma and seroconverting most of the infected individuals. However, 16% of the patients were persistently infected, even after 12 months of treatment. The plasma levels of cytokines, including interleukin-17A (IL-17A), were significantly reduced after BNZ treatment, and the efficacy of BNZ treatment was different among different groups stratified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results. We also evaluated the efficacy of BNZ treatment by qPCR-based monitoring of parasite DNA levels and IL-17A levels. qPCR-based monitoring was more sensitive than PCR-based monitoring for detecting treatment failure, and IL-17A was a promising biomarker for the efficacy of BNZ treatment.
The article "Promoter-like elements in N . meningitidis genomes" describes the identification and characterization of a class of promoter-like elements in the genomes of three N . meningitidis strains ( Z2491 , MC58 , FAM18 ). The elements were identified through a comparison of the consensus sequences of elements from three different strains and the existence of a strong promoter in the α-right terminus of the element was verified through a reporter assay. The article also discusses the transcriptional activity of the elements and their potential roles in gene regulation. The authors suggest that the identified elements may be used as markers for the evolution of N . meningitidis strains.
The C. heterostrophus fungus is a plant pathogen that causes tomato and tobacco wilt disease. The genome sequence of this fungus has been determined and analyzed, revealing a genome size of 45.2 Mb. The genome contains 9,048 predicted genes, of which 94% are protein-coding genes. The genome contains multiple copies of the virulence factor toxin A, and the gene encoding this factor was amplified and sequenced. The C. heterostrophus genome also contains genes encoding proteins that are involved in the biosynthesis of a variety of secondary metabolites, including polyketides, steroids, terpenes, and alkaloids. The genome also contains genes encoding proteins involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics and the resistance to antifungal drugs. In addition, the genome contains multiple copies of genes encoding proteins that are involved in the synthesis of the cell wall and in the transport of various molecules across the cell membrane. The genome of C. heterostrophus is highly syntenic with the genomes of other fungi, including Aspergillus fumigatus, Fusarium oxysporum, and Neurospora crassa.
The author proposes a computational model to explain how potassium ions are transported across a bacterial sodium channel. The model suggests that when a group of three or more potassium ions enter the selectivity filter of a sodium channel in the inward direction, they bind to the selectivity filter and block the passage of further sodium or potassium ions. However, when a single potassium ion enters the selectivity filter, it is able to displace the bound potassium ions and continue through the selectivity filter. The author proposes that the selectivity filter of bacterial sodium channels is asymmetric, allowing only one potassium ion to pass through at a time in the inward direction while blocking the passage of any number of potassium ions in the outward direction. The author suggests that this asymmetry is caused by the binding of potassium ions to a single site in the selectivity filter, which is unable to bind multiple potassium ions at once. The author proposes that this asymmetry is important for the function of bacterial sodium channels, allowing them to selectively transport potassium ions in the inward direction while preventing the passage of sodium or potassium ions in the outward direction.
Rabies is a neurotropic disease that affects both humans and animals. It is caused by the rabies virus (RABV) and is transmitted through the saliva of infected animals. The disease progresses rapidly and can result in death within a few days. The neurological signs of rabies vary depending on the clinical form of the disease. The paralytic form is characterized by paralysis, while the furious form is characterized by hyperactivity and agitation. The pathogenesis of rabies is poorly understood, and the relationship between the clinical forms of the disease and the mechanisms of RABV infection remains uncertain. In this study, we compared the distribution of RABV antigen in cell bodies and cellular processes in the brain of dogs with paralytic and furious rabies. We found that the percentage of RABV antigen beyond the neuronal cell body was lower in the paralytic form of rabies, even when the number of infected neurons was the same. This difference was significant at all 16 anatomical levels examined. We also found that the percentage of RABV antigen within the neuronal cell body was lower in the paralytic form of rabies. The antigen levels in cellular processes were always lower than those in cell bodies, but the difference was more pronounced in the paralytic form of rabies. These findings suggest that the transport of RABV from the cell body to cell processes is slower or less efficient in the paralytic form of rabies, possibly due to an unknown genetic difference between the viruses causing the two clinical forms of the disease. The mechanisms by which RABV interferes with axonal transport of the virus to the cell body and cell processes are poorly understood and require further study.
We used genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) arrays to identify in vivo binding sites for the Drosophila insulator protein CTCF in the BX-C and Adh regions. We validated the ChIP enrichment of the sites and identified 14 binding sites, most of which contain at least one PRE and are in close proximity to the CTCF binding site. The identified CTCF sites are highly conserved in Drosophila and are required for the insulator activity of the relevant domains. The ChIP-array analysis revealed a 20-bp CTCF consensus binding site that is highly conserved in Drosophila and vertebrates. The Drosophila consensus sequence is similar to the vertebrate consensus sequence that was derived from sequence analysis of in vitro binding sites. CTCF binds to a single consensus sequence in vivo as revealed by ChIP-sequencing of the BX-C region. We also found that the genomic CTCF sites are very similar to the consensus binding site. Our results suggest that in vivo CTCF binding is highly specific to a single, highly conserved, DNA sequence. We propose that all known insulators in the BX-C function in a CTCF dependent manner.
The research provides structural information about an inhibitor of malaria parasite proteins that are resistant to currently used drugs. The study reveals the specific structural and dynamic features of the inhibitor that make it effective against resistant parasites. The findings provide insights into the mechanisms of drug resistance and suggest potential strategies for the development of new drugs.
This study reports the results of mathematical modeling and in vitro electrophysiological recordings of retinal ganglion cells and thalamic relay neurons. The authors developed a biologically-inspired computational model of the retinothalamic pathway, which simulates the inputs and outputs of individual neurons in the retina and thalamus. The model was tested in vitro using recordings of retinal ganglion cells and thalamic relay neurons, and the results were compared to those obtained from the computational model. The study provides insight into the mechanisms underlying information transfer in the retinothalamic pathway, and suggests that this pathway plays a critical role in visual processing.
The authors utilized CRISPR-Cas9 technology to delete the nmad-1 gene in C. elegans and investigated the resulting phenotypes. They found that nmad-1 deletion resulted in an increase in meiotic cell division and a decrease in germline stem cell survival. They also observed an increase in the frequency of DSBs in the germline, which they hypothesize to be due to the deletion of nmad-1. To investigate the role of nmad-1 in maintaining genome stability, the authors performed a forward genetic screen using a mutagenic reagent. They identified two mutants that exhibit germline instability and are able to suppress the increase in DSBs observed in the nmad-1 deletion mutant. They determined that these mutants affect the expression of several genes involved in DNA replication and repair. Overall, the authors provide compelling evidence that nmad-1 is important for maintaining genome stability in the C. elegans germline.
The study investigates the function of APMAP, a transmembrane protein, in HCMV infection. Using CRISPR/Cas9, the study generated APMAP knockout cells and found that these cells were resistant to HCMV infection. The study further showed that APMAP promoted HCMV internalization and the expression of immediate early genes in infected cells. The study also found that APMAP was involved in the interaction between HCMV gH/gL dimer and gO. Additionally, the study showed that APMAP facilitated the fusion of viral envelope with cell membrane during HCMV infection. Overall, the study provides insight into the role of APMAP in HCMV infection.
We present a stochastic model for lineage commitment in hematopoietic progenitors that is based on the dynamics of transcriptional networks and the effects of extracellular cytokines. We develop a minimal model consisting of two lineages and show that the system can generate ultrasensitivity to ligand and multistability in the active transcription factor levels. We use the model to analyze the effects of extracellular cytokines on lineage commitment and show that strong inhibition results in a binary decision, while moderate inhibition allows for multistability. We also discuss the implications of our model for the potential existence of a bipotent progenitor state and show that our model can be used to explain both instructive and stochastic mechanisms of lineage commitment.
We have determined the 3D structure of BUNV, an orthobunyavirus, by cryo-EM. The structure reveals a tripodal spike composed of three Gn–Gc heterodimers, with each Gc fusion glycoprotein forming a distinct head region. This structure is distinct from previously solved structures of hantaviruses and phleboviruses, with which BUNV shares ∼60% and ∼30% sequence identity, respectively. The tripodal spike structure may explain the pleomorphic nature of BUNV virions. The structure suggests a unique mode of fusion glycoprotein oligomerization, dissimilar to that observed in the currently known classes of fusion glycoproteins. Our study provides a structural basis for understanding the biology of orthobunyaviruses, which are a group of clinically important viruses.
Primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ) is a common eye disease that can lead to blindness if not treated. The risk for PACG is increased with shallower anterior chamber depth ( ACD ), a key anatomical risk factor. A GWAS was conducted on ACD in 5,308 population-based individuals of Asian descent from 3 cohorts. Genome-wide significant association was observed at a variant in ABCC5 ( per-allele effect size −0 . 045 mm ACD per-copy of the minor allele, P = 8 . 17×10−9 ). This association was strengthened when a sub-group of controls with open angles were included in the analysis. The association between ABCC5 and PACG was also observed in 1,854 PACG cases and 9,608 controls. This study highlights the importance of clinical phenotyping and proper control selection in genetic studies.
In the present study, the authors investigate the evolution of developmental enhancers between deuterostomes and protostomes. By analyzing the genomes of vertebrates and invertebrates, the authors identified conserved non-coding elements (CNEs) that are likely to be ancestral developmental enhancers. They focused their analysis on enhancers that control the expression of the bone morphogenetic protein (Bmp) signaling pathway, which is critical for proper embryonic development. The authors show that these enhancers are conserved across multiple species and have maintained their function throughout evolution. Their results highlight the importance of enhancer elements in developmental evolution and suggest that enhancers may have played a crucial role in the emergence of complex animal development.
Influenza viruses are known to undergo frequent genetic changes, and the study of these changes is important to understand the evolution of the virus and to develop effective vaccines. This study used data from a large influenza vaccine efficacy trial in healthy young adults to examine the role of host-derived influenza virus variants in the evolution of the virus. The study found that the diversity of influenza viruses in the study participants was low, and there were no significant differences in diversity between vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals or between seasons. The study also did not find evidence that vaccine-induced immunity had a significant impact on intrahost diversity. However, the study did find a small number of variants in antigenic sites that were more common in vaccinated individuals than unvaccinated individuals. These variants may have had the potential to affect vaccine effectiveness, but their frequency was low and they did not persist over time. Overall, the study provides important insights into the evolution of influenza viruses in a large and well-defined cohort of individuals.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania parasites and transmitted by sand flies. Current treatment for leishmaniasis relies on polyene antibiotics but has limitations including development of resistance, toxicity, and ineffectiveness against certain parasite species. Vaccination is a promising alternative strategy for the prevention of leishmaniasis. However, there are no effective vaccines available for humans. In this study, we investigated the immunogenicity of a live attenuated Leishmania parasite in young and aged mice. We found that LdCen-/- parasites were effective in inducing a protective immune response in both young and aged mice. Interestingly, the immune response induced by LdCen-/- parasites was similar in both young and aged mice, despite known differences in immune responses in aged mice compared to young mice. Our findings suggest that LdCen-/- parasites may be a promising vaccine candidate for the prevention of leishmaniasis in all age groups.
In this study, the authors investigate the adaption of enterovirus D68 (EV-D68) to the human respiratory tract by generating EV-D68-human rhinovirus D2 (HRV-D2) chimeras. The authors use the ability of the highly infectious HRV-D2 virus to adapt to the human respiratory tract and the well-characterized EV-D68 virus to investigate the genetic barriers for adaptation. The authors first demonstrate that EV-D68 and HRV-D2 are able to exchange their P1 regions, generating chimeric viruses that retain the ability to replicate in human cells. The authors then investigate the temperature sensitivity of the chimeric viruses, finding that EV-D68 adapted to 33°C replicates better at that temperature and HRV-D2 adapted to 37°C replicates better at 37°C. The authors also demonstrate that EV-D68 and HRV-D2 chimeric viruses are able to replicate in the human respiratory tract, as evidenced by the detection of viral RNA in nasal swabs and throat samples. The authors also investigate the immune response to the chimeric viruses, finding that HRV-D2 adapted to 37°C induces a stronger type I IFN response compared to EV-D68 adapted to 33°C.
The paper provides a detailed description of a method to track the cell surface dynamics of HSV-1 gD in the context of an interaction with gE in transfected HeLa cells. This method utilizes a combination of confocal microscopy and quantitative image analysis to investigate the interactions between gD and gE in the context of an antibody-mediated HSV-1 infection. The authors first developed a method to transiently express gE-gI in HeLa cells, followed by the generation of antibodies against HSV-1 gD. The authors then used these antibodies to investigate the cell surface dynamics of gD in the context of an antibody-mediated HSV-1 infection by analyzing the colocalization of gD with gE in transfected HeLa cells. The authors found that the antibody-mediated HSV-1 infection led to the internalization of gD-gE complexes, which then localized to the late endosomes and lysosomes. The authors also found that the antibody-mediated HSV-1 infection led to the internalization of gE-gI complexes, which then localized to the Golgi apparatus. The authors' method provides a valuable tool for investigating the cell surface dynamics of gD in the context of an antibody-mediated HSV-1 infection.
In this study, we used a combination of in silico and in vitro approaches to identify potential new targets for controlling echinococcosis, a parasitic disease caused by the tapeworm E. granulosus. We first identified the transcriptome of the parasite's larval stage, the only infective form. Then, we analyzed the data to identify potential ESPs, proteins involved in the parasite's metabolic adaptation to its host. Finally, we examined the expression of these potential ESPs in vitro to validate our results. Our results reveal that several potential ESPs are involved in carbohydrate metabolism and antioxidant signaling pathways, which are important for the parasite's survival in the host environment. We also identified several potential ESPs that could be used as serodiagnostic markers or targets for new drug development. These findings provide important information for understanding the mechanisms of parasite metabolic adaptation and host-parasite interactions, which could be used to develop new strategies for controlling echinococcosis.
We report the identification of a methionine oxidation-sensitive regulatory domain of the transcription factor NirA, involved in nitrate-dependent regulation of the expression of nitrate reductase genes in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. We have mapped this regulatory domain to a 50-amino acid stretch of the C-terminal portion of NirA. All mutations within this domain were intragenic suppressors of a temperature-sensitive mutation in nirA. Strains with intragenic suppressor mutations grew well at low temperatures but were unable to grow at high temperatures. The NirA mutant was unable to interact with KapK, a protein essential for nuclear export of NirA. However, all mutants were able to interact with the export repressor RspA. Analysis of the NirA protein sequence revealed that the identified regulatory domain contains a nitrate-responsive methionine residue, M169, that is oxidized upon nitrate exposure, causing a conformational change that exposes a repressor region of NirA that inhibits its interaction with KapK. Our work provides insights into the nitrate-dependent regulation of nitrate reductase gene expression in A. nidulans and has implications for the regulation of nitrate reductase genes in other organisms.
Sodium channels are important for generating action potentials, which allow neurons to communicate with each other. These channels have been the focus of extensive study in recent years because of their critical role in many diseases. However, the diversity of sodium channels and how their function is constrained by physical limitations remains unclear. In this paper, the authors use theoretical analysis to show that the activation and inactivation properties of sodium channels are bound by constraints imposed by the unique resting potential and the ability of the channels to produce action potentials. They also compare these theoretical predictions with experimental data from the literature to further support their analysis. Overall, their work provides a new perspective on how functional constraints shape the diversity of sodium channels and their properties.
The influenza virus polymerase (PA) is a promising target for anti-influenza drug development due to its essential role in viral replication. In this study, the authors report the crystal structures of influenza virus PA with four different small molecule inhibitors: DPBA, R05-1, R05-2, and R05-3. These structures reveal the unique mode of binding of each inhibitor to the active site of the enzyme. The authors also discuss the implications of these structures for the design of more effective inhibitors.
This study describes a successful attempt to produce a polyspecific antivenom against three Thai cobra venoms using low-dose, multi-site immunization protocol. The study has shown that the equine immunogens were able to produce potent antisera with high neutralizing potencies against the venom toxicities of the three cobra species. The study has also demonstrated the production of a potent commercial antivenom, Hemato Polyspecific Antivenom F (ab’) 2, from the horse HP antisera. The study has concluded that the low dose, multi-site immunization protocol used in this study is suitable for the production of potent antivenoms against cobra venoms and can be applied to the production of antivenoms against other venomous snakes.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the IQGAP1 protein in the control of Salmonella typhimurium infection in mice. They found that IQGAP1-deficient mice have increased susceptibility to Salmonella infection, and that IQGAP1 is required for the production of cytokines. Additionally, the authors found that the SseI protein of Salmonella is required for IQGAP1-mediated signaling, and that SseI interacts with IQGAP1 to inhibit the migration of macrophages. Overall, the study highlights the importance of IQGAP1 and SseI in the immune response to Salmonella infection.
The present study provides a comprehensive characterization of the S. aureus psm-mec gene, which encodes the PSM-mec regulatory RNA. We found that PSM-mec inhibits AgrA expression, and that the deletion of psm-mec increases virulence in both mice and humans. We also show that the psm-mec gene is widely present in clinical isolates of S. aureus, and that its absence is associated with a lack of the mec gene complex encoding methicillin resistance. These findings support the importance of psm-mec in S. aureus pathogenesis, and highlight its potential as a target for the development of new antibiotics.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne infectious disease with high morbidity and mortality rates in tropical and subtropical regions. A unique feature of dengue virus is that secondary infections with a different serotype can lead to increased severity of the disease due to antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE). Using A129 mice, a model of ADE was developed that recapitulates many clinical manifestations of severe dengue in humans. The A129 mice were infected with DENV2, which resulted in vascular leakage, hepatocellular damage, increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, thrombocytopenia, and lymphopenia. These mice were also found to be more susceptible to liver damage, which is a critical factor in the pathogenesis of severe dengue. Anti-TNFα antibodies, administered at day 2 post-infection, were found to fully protect mice from disease enhancement. This model may be useful for the study of dengue disease pathogenesis and the evaluation of therapeutic and vaccine candidates.
In a systematic review, we identified factors associated with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in humans in urban settings in Latin America. We included 51 studies from four countries and analyzed 47 publications. The most relevant factors were found to be gender, age, presence of dogs in the household, presence of chickens and birds in the household, and the presence of malnutrition. Additionally, several other factors were identified to be associated with VL, although further studies are needed to confirm these associations. We found that men were more likely to develop VL than women. The presence of malnutrition was associated with a higher risk of developing VL, and the presence of dogs in the household was associated with a lower risk. The presence of chickens and birds in the household was associated with a higher risk, while the presence of other animals was not. The results of this review will inform future research on VL and help to develop more effective strategies for its control.
Ft SchuS4 is a virulent strain of Francisella tularensis that causes pneumonia and mortality in mice. It is known that Ft SchuS4 is more virulent than the LVS strain, which is commonly used for animal studies. In this study, we aimed to identify the molecular mechanisms that contribute to the virulence of Ft SchuS4 and to characterize the cellular response to Ft SchuS4 infection in mice. To do this, we compared the phenotype and pathogenesis of Ft SchuS4 and LVS strains in mice. We found that Ft SchuS4 is more virulent than LVS, causing rapid and severe pneumonia in mice. We also found that Ft SchuS4 induces a distinct cellular response in mice, including a rapid and robust expansion of myeloid cells, specifically monocytes and macrophages, which we propose to be the primary drivers of tissue damage and death in Ft SchuS4-infected mice. We also found that Ft SchuS4 induces a strong and prolonged inflammatory response in mice, characterized by the production of cytokines, chemokines, and nitric oxide. We propose that the severe tissue damage caused by Ft SchuS4 infection is due to the combination of the virulence of the Ft SchuS4 strain and the host response, which we hypothesize to be largely responsible for the death of infected mice. Our findings have important implications for the development of effective treatments and vaccines against Ft infection in humans.
The Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus, is an invasive species that has spread globally through international trade. In this study, we used genetic data to disentangle the invasion history of this mosquito. By performing Bayesian analysis, we inferred the ancestral relationships among the populations of this mosquito from different regions of the world. We found that China, Japan, and Thailand were the ancestral populations of the mosquitoes from the Asia-Pacific region, while Italy and Greece were the ancestral populations of those from the Mediterranean region. We also found that Japan was the source area for the mosquitoes in North America, and that Italy and Greece were the source areas for those in North Italy. These findings provide valuable insights into the invasion history of this mosquito, and will help us understand its current and future genetic diversity in different regions of the world.
The study investigated the correlation between virulence factors and biofilm formation and its role in chronic wound infection. A total of 51,900 isolates were obtained from 310 different samples. The biofilm formation and stationary phase growth of wild type and mutant strains were compared. The study identified 153 mutants with impaired biofilm formation and 26 mutants with impaired stationary phase growth. The results suggested that biofilm formation was more important than stationary phase growth for persistence of P. aeruginosa in chronic wound infection. The study also identified 30 mutants that were defective in both biofilm formation and stationary phase growth. These mutants may be useful in developing new therapeutic strategies against chronic wound infection.
Chronic hydrocele is a common problem in filariasis-endemic areas. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of complete excision of the hydrocele sac in cases of recurrent hydroceles in a filariasis-endemic area. We compared the recurrence rates in patients who underwent complete excision of the hydrocele sac to those who underwent eversion of the hydrocele sac with or without partial excision of the sac wall. Our results showed that complete excision of the hydrocele sac was more effective in preventing recurrence than eversion with or without partial excision of the sac wall.
Toxoplasma gondii (T . spiralis) is a parasitic protozoan that infects a wide range of animals and humans. It causes a number of clinical conditions including toxoplasmosis, which can be a serious and often fatal disease in immunocompromised patients. The mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of toxoplasmosis are not fully understood, but are thought to involve a number of parasite proteins that interact with host cells in order to establish and maintain infection. In this study, we have identified a cysteine protease from the excretory-secretory elements of T . spiralis, which we have named TsUCH37. This enzyme is homologous to human UCH-L5, a member of the ubiquitin-specific protease (USP) family of enzymes that hydrolyse the peptide bond between the C-terminal carboxyl group of ubiquitin and its target protein. We have shown that TsUCH37 possesses the conserved catalytic residues required for Ub hydrolase activity, and that it is able to cleave the Ub-AMC substrate. We have also demonstrated that TsUCH37 is able to associate with a number of T . spiralis proteasome components in a similar manner to human UCH-L5, and that it is able to specifically inhibit Ub-AMC cleavage in the presence of the Ub inhibitor LDN-57444. Our study has identified a novel DUB enzyme from T . spiralis, which may be involved in the pathogenesis of toxoplasmosis.
In this article, we are reporting the results of a study that aimed to identify compounds with anti-trypanosomal activity. Trypanosomes are parasites that cause several diseases in humans and animals. The anti-trypanosomal activity of the compounds was measured in two different ways: using an enzyme assay that targets an enzyme in the parasite called cruzain and a cell-based assay that measures the ability of the compounds to kill parasites in a laboratory culture. The results showed that some of the compounds are effective against the parasite and that their activity can be explained by their ability to inhibit a protein called cathepsin K, which is not specific to the parasite.
The study presented here provides a detailed analysis of the chromosomal rearrangements that occurred during the evolution of the maize genome. The authors used a combination of methods, including genetic and physical mapping, comparative genomics, and computational analysis, to build a comprehensive map of the maize genome and identify the rearrangements that took place. They found evidence for a whole-genome duplication event, which resulted in the expansion of the maize genome by a factor of 3. They also identified several regions of the genome that appear to have undergone extensive rearrangements after the duplication event. The authors suggest that these rearrangements may have played a role in the rapid evolution of maize and its adaptation to different environments. The study provides valuable insights into the evolution of the maize genome and may have implications for understanding the evolution of other plant genomes as well.
In this study, we report the successful generation of infectious PrPSc in vitro using a modified version of the PMCA method. We found that after 144 rounds of PMCA, de novo generated PrPSc was present in 50% of the samples tested, and this PrPSc was able to generate disease in vivo in wild-type animals. We also found that the rate of PrPSc formation varied among different species of animals used in the study, and that the biochemical and conformation properties of the generated PrPSc were different from those of the known hamster prion strains. Our findings provide new insights into the origins of sporadic prion diseases and suggest that the diversity of prion strains may be larger than previously thought.
We present a model of the honeybee's angular velocity detector, which is responsible for maintaining the bee's heading in a straight line. The model is based on a combination of retinotopic motion detection and integration of inputs from the fly's photoreceptors and LMCs. We propose that the AV detector uses a combination of RHD and LMC detectors, which work together to provide a robust response to motion in the bee's visual field. The model is tested using both simulated and real-world data, and we find that it reproduces the observed responses from the honeybee's optic neuropils. The model also predicts a range of behavioral patterns that are consistent with observations of honeybees in flight, such as the ability to track moving objects and center themselves in a corridor.
HAT (human African trypanosomiasis) is a deadly disease transmitted by tsetse flies. This study provides a long-term follow-up of 53 HAT patients in the Ivory Coast who initially refused treatment. The study shows that HAT is not 100% fatal and that some patients may progress to an asymptomatic infection that can last for years. This study provides valuable insights into the natural progression of HAT and suggests that trypanotolerance may play a role in the maintenance of transmission in endemic areas. The study highlights the need for further research into the role of host and parasite factors in the control of HAT.
In a study published in Nature Immunology, the authors found that the survival advantage that loss of p53 confers in lymphoma cells is independent of the ability of p53 to suppress mutations. In contrast to previous studies that found that loss of p53 led to increased mutations, which in turn promoted cell proliferation, the authors found that p53-deficient lymphoma cells still proliferate at a higher rate than p53-expressing cells even when they have an equal number of mutations. The authors also found that p53-deficient cells had a higher fitness in competition with p53-expressing cells, and this fitness advantage was independent of the ability of p53 to suppress mutations. These findings suggest that p53-deficient lymphoma cells have a selective advantage that is not solely based on their ability to accumulate mutations.
This study investigates the role of SmKI-1, a protein from the parasite Schistosoma mansoni, in host inflammation. The authors found that SmKI-1 is a potent neutrophil elastase inhibitor, and that it also inhibits other proteases such as trypsin. The authors also showed that SmKI-1 has a protective effect in neutrophil-dependent inflammation models such as gout arthritis and peritonitis. Additionally, the authors found that SmKI-1 can protect against endotoxin-induced inflammation. The authors suggest that SmKI-1 may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
This study describes a method for generating accurate models of membrane protein structures. The method involves the following steps: 1. Rebuilding of TMH structures: The TMHs of the target structure are rebuilt by selecting the most accurate TMHs from homologous templates. 2. Rebuilding of non-TMH structures: The non-TMH regions of the target structure are rebuilt de novo. 3. All-atom refinement: The resulting structure is further refined using an all-atom energy function. The study demonstrates the method on 50 membrane protein structures with varying sequence identity to the template structure. The resulting models are validated against experimental structures and are shown to have a high accuracy.
Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive bacterium that causes the foodborne illness listeriosis, which can be fatal in pregnant women and their newborns. L. monocytogenes can survive and replicate in a variety of environmental and host niches, including soil, water, and raw or cooked meat. The bacterium is also capable of forming biofilms, which can protect it from antibiotics and other environmental stresses. In recent years, there has been growing interest in understanding the mechanisms by which L. monocytogenes forms biofilms and how these biofilms may contribute to its pathogenesis. Several studies have shown that L. monocytogenes can form biofilms in vitro and in vivo, and that these biofilms can contribute to the bacterium's persistence and virulence. The identification of specific genes and molecular pathways involved in the formation and maintenance of L. monocytogenes biofilms could provide new targets for the development of anti-biofilm therapies and strategies to prevent the formation of biofilms in food production and processing environments. Overall, the study of L. monocytogenes biofilms has important implications for food safety, public health, and the development of new therapeutic strategies for combating this pathogenic bacterium.
This article compares the performance of an artificial neural network with that of human subjects in a task involving the detection of a perceptual switch between two different signals. The artificial neural network was designed to mimic the structure and function of the visual system, and was trained using a dataset of auditory stimuli. The results of the study show that the artificial neural network was able to accurately detect the perceptual switch, and that its performance was comparable to that of human subjects. The authors also discuss some of the limitations of their model, and suggest that further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms underlying perceptual switching.
We have developed a new in vitro method for assessing the allergenicity of proteins from the human parasite Schistosoma mansoni. This method uses a humanized rat basophil cell line and in vitro translation of the allergenic proteins into wheat germ lysate. The wheat germ lysate is added to the basophil cell line, along with a specific antibody against the allergen, and the amount of luciferase produced is measured. This method has been validated using a well-characterized serum pool from P. judaica allergic individuals, and has the potential to be used as a high-throughput assay for allergenicity of proteins from S. mansoni and other parasites.
We report a genetic analysis of dysgenesis in the Drosophila species virilis, a laboratory model system of TE mobilization. We have identified a large number of dysgenic strains and have begun to define the genetic basis of dysgenesis. We find that dysgenesis in Drosophila is caused by a combination of genomic factors, including the number and location of TEs, and the expression of proteins involved in TE biogenesis. Our analysis also highlights the importance of epigenetic modifications to the regulation of TE biogenesis. We conclude that dysgenesis is a complex phenomenon that cannot be reduced to the activity of a single TE or a single genetic locus.
We show that histone modification enzymes can reduce the transcriptional upregulation of the FMR1 gene in pre-mutation carrier cells of FXTAS patients. Our studies suggest that the HDAC6, HDAC11, and DNMT3A enzymes can reverse some of the transcriptional upregulation of the FMR1 gene in pre-mutation carrier cells.
The study compared the immune responses of two strains of mice with different major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotypes, BALB/c and C57BL/6, during infection with two strains of the Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis Virus (LCMV). The authors found that mice with the H-2bxd MHC haplotype were more susceptible to chronic LCMV infection, compared to mice with the H-2d MHC haplotype. They also found that mice with the H-2bxd MHC haplotype had a more functional CD8 T cell response, which was associated with increased effector function, compared to mice with the H-2d MHC haplotype. The authors further found that the increased effector function of the CD8 T cell response in mice with the H-2bxd MHC haplotype was associated with reduced CD8 T cell exhaustion, which was due to differences in the distribution of CD4 T cell subsets. Overall, the study suggests that the genetic background of the host can significantly influence the immune response to chronic viral infection.
Anthrax is a rare but serious disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. In China, anthrax is endemic, especially in the northwestern provinces of Gansu, Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Qinghai, and Shaanxi. In this study, we analyzed the genetic diversity of B. anthracis in China from 2005 to 2016 based on the canSNP and MLVA typing methods. We found that the A. Br. 001/002 subgroup was the most prevalent in China, with new sublineages emerging. We also identified a new outbreak in Gansu in 2016 caused by the A. Br. Ames subgroup, which had never been found in China before. Our study provides valuable information for the source tracking and prevention of anthrax outbreaks in China.
The study explores the role of RELM-beta in preventing colitis and promoting epithelial repair in murine models of Crohn's disease. The authors show that RELM-beta is upregulated during colitis in wild-type mice and that it promotes the recruitment and proliferation of intestinal epithelial cells, which are important for tissue repair. The authors also show that RELM-beta protects against colitis in mice lacking the TCR beta gene. They conclude that RELM-beta may be a potential therapeutic target for Crohn's disease.
Here we describe the characterization of eukaryotic translation initiation factors (eIFs) and other host factors important for the replication of the mouse norovirus (MNV). We show that the viral polyprotein, encoded by the ORF1, is translated from a subgenomic RNA (sgRNA) and contains two small open reading frames (ORFs), ORF2 and ORF3, whose products function as structural proteins. We find that the viral polyprotein and ORF2 product interact with a number of host eIFs, including eIF4A, eIF4E, eIF4F, eIF4G, and eIF3, and that the viral polyprotein can also bind to eIF4G in a 4GI-independent manner. We find that the viral polyprotein and ORF2 product form a stable complex with host eIF4GI and that the eIF4GI-binding region of the viral polyprotein is contained within residues 102-124. We also find that the eIF4GI-binding region is sufficient to inhibit MNV replication when expressed as a peptide, and that the eIF4GI-binding region can be blocked by a mutation (F123A) that does not affect eIF4GI binding. We show that the viral polyprotein interacts with host eIF4A in a 4GI-dependent manner, and that the viral polyprotein can bind to eIF4A in a manner that is inhibited by the eIF4GI-binding peptide. We also find that the viral polyprotein interacts with host eIF3D in a 4GI-dependent manner. We show that the viral polyprotein interacts with host eIF4B in a manner that is inhibited by the eIF4GI-binding peptide. We find that the eIF4GI-binding region of the viral polyprotein interacts with host eIF4B in a 4GI-independent manner. Finally, we find that MNV replication is inhibited when host cells are treated with eIF4GI-binding peptide. We conclude that the MNV polyprotein and ORF2 product are translation initiation factors that interact with multiple host translation initiation factors.
Genes in a bacterial genome are often organized into clusters that involve related functions. The underlying mechanisms for the evolution of these gene clusters have been the subject of much debate in the field of evolutionary biology. A number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the occurrence and maintenance of gene clusters, including the selfish operon model, the natal model, and the persistence model. In this study, we investigate these hypotheses using computational modeling. We find that under certain conditions, all of these models can produce gene clustering, though the selfish operon model is limited in its ability to do so. Our results suggest that gene clusters can evolve through a combination of factors, including selection, natural selection, and random processes. Further research is needed to determine the relative importance of each of these factors in the evolution of gene clusters.
This study describes the identification and characterization of an uORF in the var2csa gene of P. falciparum that acts as a translational repressor of the downstream gene, VAR2CSA. The uORF is highly conserved in parasites and contains a functional Kozak sequence that appears to be necessary for its function. Transfection experiments reveal that the uORF represses translation of the downstream gene by preventing the downstream ATG from being recognized. Site-directed mutagenesis of the uORF confirms its function as a repressor. The uORF also appears to be functional in parasite culture and is present in all parasites tested. This study provides a mechanistic explanation for the repression of VAR2CSA that was observed in previous studies.
We found that DENV infection in vivo leads to large changes in the metabolic pathways of peripheral blood cells. The most dramatic change is in the expression of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins, which are upregulated in patients with dengue shock syndrome (DSS). This is in contrast to the upregulation of interferon-mediated immunity genes observed in in vitro studies of DENV infection. The differences between in vivo and in vitro datasets may be due to the complexity of acute dengue infection and the dynamic nature of host responses.
We present evidence that the gp70 HS binding domain of MuHV-4 is an important determinant of its host entry route, through interaction with HS on the apical surface of the olfactory neuroepithelium. We demonstrate that MuHV-4 replication-deficient virions bind to HS on the surface of olfactory dendrites in vivo, and that viral entry is inhibited by blocking HS binding with heparin. We show that gp70 fused to Fc is capable of binding to HS on the apical surface of the olfactory neuroepithelium in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest that the HS binding domain of MuHV-4 plays a critical role in host entry, and may be a useful target for the development of new vaccines or therapeutic interventions.
In this study, we investigated the role of the sRNA Spot 42 in the regulation of Salmonella SPI-1 gene expression. We found that Spot 42 functions as a post-transcriptional repressor of hilD expression by binding to the 3’-UTR of the hilD transcript in an Hfq-dependent manner. Our findings suggest that the activation of hilD expression is achieved by the repression of Spot 42. Our study provides new insights into the complex regulation of Salmonella SPI-1 virulence genes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive brain disorder that affects movement, emotion, and cognition. In HD, an expanded CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene leads to the production of a mutant huntingtin protein. It is unclear why CAG repeats expand in HD, and why this expansion leads to disease. Here, we describe a comprehensive analysis of CAG repeat expansion and its effects on the huntingtin gene and protein in HD mouse models. We find that CAG repeat expansion affects the structure and function of chromatin around the huntingtin gene. In particular, the expansion increases the level of histone marks associated with heterochromatin, which may help to repress the huntingtin gene. We also find that the expansion affects the transcription of the huntingtin gene, by altering the level of several histone marks associated with transcription and by increasing the level of RNA polymerase II, which transcribes the gene. These changes may lead to the production of mutant huntingtin protein. Our results provide important insights into the mechanisms of CAG repeat expansion and its effects on the huntingtin gene and protein in HD.
This article describes the genetic analysis of an infectious clone of the enterovirus 71 (EV71) virus, a causative agent of hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD), that was isolated from a patient with a disseminated infection. The infectious clone contained three nucleotide differences between the samples isolated from different locations in the patient's body. Sequence analysis of the viral genome revealed that the VP1 region of the virus was responsible for the observed adaptation to neuroblastoma cells. The adaptation was confirmed by infectivity assays, where viruses derived from the different samples exhibited different growth patterns in neuroblastoma cells. The authors propose that this adaptation may be responsible for the observed neurological symptoms in the patient.
ComR is a protein that regulates expression of genes involved in bacterial virulence. The study reports the purification, crystallization and structure determination of ComR from S. suis 05ZYH33, which is a clinically isolated strain of this bacterium. The structure of ComR is similar to that of ComR from other streptococcal species, with several key differences. The authors identify three mutations in the protein that alter its binding affinity for CXC motif peptides, which are ComR ligands. The authors also report the use of isothermal titration calorimetry to measure the binding affinity of ComR mutants for CXC motif peptides.
In this study, the replication timing of the constitutively active centromere regions in C. albicans was analyzed. The results showed that centromeres are replicated at a distinct time from the rest of the chromosome, and that the replication time is linked to the epigenetic inheritance of centromeres. The findings suggest that centromeres are replicated by a specialized replication machinery that is controlled epigenetically. This study provides important insights into the mechanisms of centromere maintenance and function in yeast.
The study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with chronic back pain (CBP) using a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in individuals of European ancestry. The study included 16 cohorts with a total of 16,324 individuals with CBP and 17,500 individuals without CBP. The study found three genetic variants associated with CBP at the SOX5, CCDC26/GSDMC, and DCC loci. The study also found genetic associations between CBP and anthropometric traits, osteoarthritis, depression, and height. The study highlighted the importance of considering pleiotropy and other genetic associations when studying CBP.
Taenia solium cysticercosis is a disease that affects both humans and pigs. It is transmitted from humans to pigs and vice versa through fecal matter. Humans can become infected through consumption of undercooked pork and pigs can become infected through consumption of human feces. The disease can cause epilepsy in humans and reduced productivity in pigs. The study aims to estimate the costs and disease burden associated with T. solium cysticercosis in West Cameroon. The study uses data on the prevalence of the disease in humans and pigs as well as costs associated with treatment and productivity losses in pigs. The study finds that the overall cost of the disease is estimated to be 10.3 million euros with 4.7% of the cost being attributed to reduced productivity in pigs. The study also finds that the disease burden is high with an estimated 95,300 DALYs lost per year in West Cameroon. The study recommends the need for more research to improve the accuracy of the estimates and to develop better diagnostic tools to detect the disease.
The small RNA RsaA, which regulates the expression of the biofilm-associated gene mgrA, has been studied by several methods, including the characterization of RsaA-mgrA mRNA complex formation and the determination of RsaA-dependent mgrA mRNA stability. The authors report that the RsaA protein, when produced by isogenic mutants of the S. aureus rsaA gene, binds to the mgrA mRNA and inhibits its translation, resulting in decreased mgrA protein levels. The authors also demonstrate that the RsaA-mgrA mRNA complex has a higher affinity for RsaA than the RsaA-mRNA complex. The authors conclude that the RsaA protein plays a negative role in biofilm formation by regulating the expression of the mgrA gene.
We investigated the mechanism of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) capsid assembly using fluorescently labeled capsid proteins and a highly sensitive confocal microscopy technique. We found that the assembly of the HIV-1 capsid is mediated by interactions between the N-terminal region of CA and the LBD of p24, which are promoted by the binding of p24 to the C-terminal region of CA. The binding of p24 to the C-terminal region of CA is also crucial for the stability of the capsid. We also found that the binding of p24 to CA is essential for the formation of the intasome, the active form of the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase complex, suggesting that p24 plays a key role in the early stages of HIV-1 replication. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanism of HIV-1 capsid assembly and highlight the importance of the interaction between CA and p24 for the stability of the capsid and the formation of the intasome.
This article investigates the homogeneity and diversity of DNA composition in prokaryotic genomes. The authors used oligonucleotide frequencies to measure DNA composition at different "word" lengths. They found that global GC content was strongly correlated with average tetranucleotide usage variance (OUV) in genomes, indicating that more GC rich genomes tend to have less varied tetranucleotide frequencies. They also found that tetranucleotide usage variance in coding regions was more strongly correlated with global GC content than in non-coding regions. These results suggest that GC rich genomes have a more homogeneous DNA composition. The authors also found that AT rich genomes have a more heterogeneous DNA composition, with a higher tetranucleotide usage variance. They conclude that GC content is strongly related to genomic DNA composition and that this information can be used to predict various properties of prokaryotic genomes.
In this study, the authors used human sperm DNA to investigate the phenomenon of hotspot drive, a process in which certain regions of a chromosome have a higher propensity to drive recombination. The authors used a combination of PCR and allele-specific hybridization to analyze recombinant events at two hotspot regions, F6 and K7, in six men with different alleles at the key SNPs. They found that in each man, there was a strong bias in favor of the driven allele in NCOs but not in COs. This bias was maintained even when the heterozygosity of the key SNP was reversed between men. The authors propose that hotspot drive may arise from biases in the structure of the recombination intermediates or in the repair of these intermediates, and suggest that this process may contribute to the observed correlation between recombination rate and GC content.
We propose an approach to predict protein-protein associations and to identify molecular targets for chemicals based on a curated chemical toxicogenomics database, the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD). Our approach uses a protein-protein interaction network (P-PAN) to extract human protein targets for a chemical. The P-PAN is constructed using protein-protein interaction data from multiple species and chemical-protein associations extracted from the CTD. We propose an algorithm to score the relevance of a chemical-protein association and to rank the proteins based on their relevance to a chemical. We validate our approach using DEHP (diethylhexylphthalate) as an example chemical, and show that our approach is complementary to other approaches. We identify potential molecular targets for DEHP and discuss their relevance to human disease. Our approach can be used to predict molecular targets for other chemicals and to identify potential toxic effects of chemicals on human health.
The work provides a new method for analyzing neural responses to sound, based on fitting a feedforward neural network model to the response data. The model involves hidden units with sparse weights and a non-linear activation function, and is able to capture the complex nonlinearities of the sound-response relationship in auditory cortex. The results show that the model is able to predict neural responses to natural sounds more accurately than a linear model with a simple output nonlinearity. The authors also introduce a new regularization method to sparsify the weights of the model, which improves the performance of the model. The work is significant as it provides a novel method for analyzing neural responses to sound, which can help us understand how the brain processes sound and develop new methods for sound processing and analysis.
Circadian rhythm is a biological clock that regulates physiological processes such as sleep, hormone secretion, and body temperature. Circadian rhythm is controlled by a group of clock genes that interact with each other in a complex manner. In this study, the authors reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of circadian rhythm. They identify a new subunit of the clock protein BMAL1, which regulates the activity of the clock protein CLOCK. This regulation occurs through a protein-protein interaction between BMAL1 and CLOCK, which affects the stability of the CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimer. The authors propose a model of the circadian clock, in which the CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimer drives transcription and is negatively regulated by the CRY-CK2β complex. This study sheds light on the complex regulatory mechanisms of circadian rhythm and provides insights into the molecular basis of various clock-related disorders.
Salmonella enterica is a foodborne pathogen that causes gastrointestinal infections in humans. The growth of this bacterium is strongly inhibited by high concentrations of bile salts, which are found in the gall bladder of humans. This study shows that Salmonella enterica is able to adapt to bile salt stress by mutating genes encoding proteins involved in the uptake and metabolism of bile salts. The study also shows that some mutations are present in all Salmonella enterica isolates, suggesting that they have been acquired during the evolution of the species. These mutations may be responsible for the ability of Salmonella enterica to survive in the host's environment. Overall, this study provides important insights into the adaptation of Salmonella enterica to bile salt stress and highlights the importance of studying the genomes of pathogenic bacteria to understand their virulence and evolution.
The Mu prophage of Escherichia coli is a non-essential element that can be stably inherited or lost during cell division. When the Mu prophage is lost, its genes are transcriptionally regulated by SOS, a DNA damage response system. To understand the transcriptional regulation of Mu prophage genes, we used a genetic approach to analyze the roles of SOS proteins in Mu prophage gene expression. We found that the repressor of the SOS system, LexA, represses the expression of several Mu genes. The LexA repressor is inactivated when the prophage Mu is lost or damaged. In contrast, we found that the SOS protein RecA induces the expression of several Mu genes when the prophage is lost. Our findings demonstrate that the Mu prophage is regulated by both SOS and LexA, two major regulators of DNA damage response.
Plasmodium vivax (Pv) and Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) are the two most common species of malaria parasites that infect humans. Pv is known to relapse after a period of remission, while Pf is not. This study aimed to investigate the factors that affect the risk of Pv and Pf gametocyte carriage. Gametocytes are the stage of the malaria parasite that is transmitted from an infected person to a mosquito, which then transmits it to another person. The study found that the risk of carrying gametocytes was higher in clinical episodes of malaria than in asymptomatic infections, and that gametocyte densities were significantly associated with asexual parasite densities. The study also found that the risk of carrying gametocytes was higher in mixed Pv/Pf infections than in single-species Pv or Pf infections, and that PQ treatment had no significant effect on the risk of carrying gametocytes. These findings suggest that the development of strategies to eliminate Pv relapses may be critical for the control of malaria transmission.
The GTPases are a class of proteins that control many cellular functions, including cell division, polarity, and signaling. We have shown that the GTPases can be modeled as a series of discrete steps between different states. These steps involve the binding and dissociation of GTPases from GDP and GTP, as well as their binding to membranes and effector proteins. We have also shown that the dissociation of GTPases from GDP is independent of their binding to the membrane, and that the dissociation of GTPases from GTP is independent of their binding to effector proteins. This allows us to make predictions about the behavior of the GTPases under different conditions.
The current World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines recommend treatment of school-aged children (SAC) once every 3 years in low prevalence settings, once every 2 years in moderate prevalence settings, and once a year in high prevalence settings. However, recent analyses based on mathematical models suggest that increasing treatment coverage and including adults in the treatment program may be more effective in reducing the burden of schistosomiasis. In this study, we used mathematical models to investigate the impact of different age-intensity profiles of infection with low, moderate, or high burdens of infection in adults on the WHO guidelines. We found that for moderate prevalence settings, regardless of the burden of infection in adults, treating SAC only may achieve the WHO goals. However, for high prevalence settings, adult treatment is required to meet the WHO goals. We highlight the importance of collecting prevalence and intensity of infection data from adults in addition to SAC to better inform the burden of infection and the optimal treatment strategy for a region.
In this study, we use functional MRI (fMRI) data to model the spread of epilepsy seizures in individuals with left temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and hippocampal sclerosis. The study aims to understand the mechanisms of seizure spread and identify potential surgical targets. The study uses a model that captures the dynamics of epilepsy seizures and simulates the effects of resective surgery on the connectivity network of the brain. The model is based on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data, which provides information about the fiber tracts in the brain. The study finds that the model is able to accurately predict the spread of seizures in patients with TLE and hippocampal sclerosis, and identifies regions of the brain that are most important for seizure propagation. The study also finds that patient-specific resection surgery, which targets the regions of the brain that are most important for seizure propagation, is more effective than standard clinical resection surgery. The study suggests that patient-specific resection surgery may be a more effective treatment for epilepsy, and could help improve the outcomes of patients with TLE and hippocampal sclerosis.
This study investigates the role of viral interferon-related factor 1 (vIRF-1) in the replication and apoptosis of the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (HHV-8). The authors show that vIRF-1 is important for replication and anti-apoptosis in HHV-8-infected lymphoma cells and identify the Bcl-2 family member Bim as a target of vIRF-1 regulation. They demonstrate that vIRF-1 interacts with Bim in the nucleus to prevent its translocation to the cytoplasm, leading to apoptosis. The authors also show that this interaction is important for HHV-8 productive replication and can be disrupted by a peptide that binds to a specific region of vIRF-1. Overall, this study provides important insights into the mechanisms of HHV-8 replication and apoptosis.
We have discovered that the β6 integrin subunit in the lung is important for respiratory immune defense and host responses to multiple pathogens. The β6 integrin is expressed at low levels in healthy lungs but is rapidly upregulated during development and in response to injury and inflammation. Upon activation, β6-integrin bound TGF-β1 and subsequent β6-integrin inhibition led to decreased inflammatory signaling in vivo and reduced cytokine and chemokine production in vitro, suggesting that β6 integrin is a critical regulator of inflammation.
We studied leishmaniasis, a disease caused by protozoa, in a highly endemic region of Argentina. We found that the test used to diagnose the disease, called leishmanin skin test (LST), is highly sensitive even in cases of cutaneous lesions that are older than 21 days. This information is important because the test may be used in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis even in cases where the disease has been present for a longer period of time.
The paper "Novel regulatory elements and a critical role for C/EBPbeta in mediating macrophage response to oxidized low density lipoprotein" reports the identification of dynamic chromatin and enhancer regions in the vicinity of the rs72664324 SNP associated with cardiovascular disease. The authors used various high-throughput sequencing technologies to identify enhancers in primary human macrophages, and found that this SNP disrupts an enhancer that drives expression of the LPP3 gene. The authors also showed that the rs72664324 SNP affects the binding of the transcription factor C/EBPbeta to this enhancer. Overall, the paper provides new insights into the mechanisms by which genetic variants can affect gene expression in macrophages, and the potential role of these variants in the development of cardiovascular disease.
We report the impact of a single round of azithromycin mass drug administration (MDA) in Malawi, in which 8 districts had a baseline prevalence of trachomatous inflammation—follicular (TF) of 5.0%–9.9% in children aged 1–9 years. The MDA was conducted between October and November 2015, targeting a total of 3,632,175 people. The mean coverage achieved was 78.9%. The impact surveys conducted in 2016 revealed that all 18 clusters in the 8 districts had TF prevalences <5.0%. These findings support the use of a single round of azithromycin MDA as an effective strategy for controlling trachoma in hypo-endemic districts.
In this study, we used a reverse genetic approach to identify the plant immune regulators that mediate the RMP1- and Rpt2-induced WRKY46 expression and ROS production in ETI. Our results indicate that the WRKY46 expression in ETI is mediated by the interaction of WRKY48 with CPK5 and WRKY28 with CPK4. The WRKY46-mediated ROS production is regulated by the interaction of WRKY48 with CPK5 and the interaction of WRKY28 with CPK4. The PTI and ETI signaling pathways are tightly controlled, with multiple layers of crosstalk and negative feedback to prevent over-activation. Our results provide evidence that the WRKY46-mediated ROS production is negatively regulated by the interaction of WRKY48 with CPK5 and the interaction of WRKY28 with CPK4.
This investigation is a retrospective analysis of the consultation rate time series (TS) for schistosomiasis haematobium (S . haematobium) in the district of Niono, Mali, from 1996 to 2004. The purpose of this study is to develop and evaluate contemporary S . haematobium TS forecasts to provide early warning systems for schistosomiasis control programs. The proposed forecasting methodology is the exponential smoothing (ES) state-space framework, which is a general-purpose forecasting framework that models time series data as a function of external covariates. The analysis employs 15 different ES methods, which are evaluated by the accuracy of their 2- to 5-month horizon forecasts. The findings of this study indicate that the ES framework effectively captures the seasonal and interannual fluctuations of S . haematobium TS in Niono, Mali. The results also suggest that the proposed forecasting methodology can help public health programs to manage and control schistosomiasis by providing early warning systems.
HCMV has developed a sophisticated mechanism to best synchronize its life cycle with that of virally favorable phases of the cell cycle for reaching highest efficacy and efficiency of viral replication. First, viral replication is restricted in G0/G1 phase by a cyclin A-CDK-dependent negative regulator, pp150. Second, a cyclin A-CDK-sensitive counterpart, pUL21a, directs the onset of viral gene expression to the G1 phase by targeting cyclin A for proteasomal degradation. Third, an interaction between the two proteins (pp150 and pUL21a) results in an early and synchronous replication cycle.
The study by Cascio et al. used a candidate gene approach to identify rare or novel mutations in a panel of 242 sporadic ALS cases and 292 controls using next-generation sequencing. The study demonstrated that sporadic ALS patients have a higher burden of deleterious mutations in known ALS disease genes than controls. The study also provides evidence that the known ALS disease genes associated with a high prion score or high toxicity score may be causative of sporadic ALS. Additionally, the study identified several rare and novel variants in candidate genes including FUS, SRCAP, TAF15, and APOE ε status. The results suggest that next-generation sequencing is a powerful tool for the study of ALS and may help to identify novel disease-causing genes and mutations.
Influenza viruses are highly variable, and new viral strains emerge regularly, causing pandemics and epidemics. Despite the efforts of researchers to develop new vaccines, current vaccines have significant limitations. The immune response to influenza infection involves both cellular and humoral immunity, but the humoral response is usually weak and short-lived. This study focused on understanding the cellular immune response to influenza infection. The authors used mice to model influenza infection, and they discovered that the levels of a cytokine called interleukin 6 (IL-6) were low in mice that lacked the IL-6 receptor. The lack of the IL-6 receptor impaired the immune response to influenza infection, leading to increased viral replication in the lungs and the inability of the mice to clear the infection. The authors also discovered that T-cells from mice that lacked the IL-6 receptor had lower levels of the cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and had impaired ability to control viral replication. The authors further showed that the IL-6 receptor is expressed on T-cells and that IL-6 signaling is important for the function of T-cells. This study provides new insights into the immune response to influenza infection and highlights the importance of the IL-6 receptor in T-cell function. It suggests that strategies to enhance the function of T-cells by targeting the IL-6 receptor may be useful in the development of new vaccines against influenza.
The enzyme Enolase of the protozoan Entamoeba histolytica (Eh) was cloned and expressed in E. coli as a GST-tagged fusion protein. The fusion protein bound to the purified Eh methyltransferase (EhMRS2) in vitro. The binding affinity of the fusion protein to EhMRS2 was not inhibited by the presence of glucose in the media. The GST-tagged fusion protein was able to bind to EhMRS2 in the presence of various methylation substrates. The fusion protein bound to EhMRS2 in the presence of 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PG), an inhibitor of methylation. The fusion protein was also able to bind to EhMRS2 in the presence of the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2′-deoxycytidine. The fusion protein was able to bind to EhMRS2 in the presence of the Eh DNA methyltransferase inhibitor EhMLP. The binding of the fusion protein to EhMRS2 was not affected by the presence of the Eh DNA methyltransferase inhibitor EhMLP. These results suggest that Enolase plays a role in the regulation of EhMRS2 methylation activity and may be involved in the regulation of DNA methylation in E. histolytica.
This study identified microRNAs in the saliva of two species of mosquitoes, Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus. The miRNAs were detected in both species of mosquitoes and some were highly expressed. The miRNAs were found to be exogenous, meaning they were not from the mosquitoes themselves but were present in the saliva. Additionally, some of the miRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in CHIKV-infected mosquitoes compared to uninfected mosquitoes. The study also found that inhibiting the expression of certain miRNAs in mosquito cells reduced CHIKV replication. These findings suggest that miRNAs may play a role in regulating CHIKV infection in mosquitoes.
This study investigates the involvement of mitochondrial homologous recombination proteins (Rad51p, Rad52p, and Rad59p) in mitochondrial genome stability and function. Using a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches, the authors demonstrate that these proteins are required for mitochondrial function and that their loss causes mitochondrial DNA loss and respiratory deficiency. The authors further show that mitochondrial Rad51p, but not Rad52p or Rad59p, is necessary for mitochondrial homologous recombination. The study provides insights into the mechanisms of mitochondrial genome stability and function, and highlights the importance of mitochondrial homologous recombination for mitochondrial genome maintenance.
The purpose of this systematic review is to examine the evidence for social and environmental factors related to GAS infection, ARF, and RHD. The review includes 50 observational and experimental studies from 1952 to 2016. The results of the review suggest that GAS infection is associated with low socioeconomic status, overcrowding, and poor housing. The link between ARF and RHD and low socioeconomic status and overcrowding is less clear. The review also indicates that there are several social and environmental factors that have not been adequately studied or that have conflicting findings.
We have described a simple genetic circuit that exhibits bistable behavior and can be switched irreversibly from one state to another, which we term 'ON' and 'OFF'. The circuit consists of two genes that regulate each other in a feedback loop, leading to bistability. The circuit can be switched irreversibly between the ON and OFF states by mutating a single gene, causing a phosphatase defect in the corresponding protein. This mutation results in a 'memory' of the previous state of the circuit. The circuit can be used to store information about past environmental conditions, and can also be used to control the development and differentiation of cells. The circuit can be made more robust by adding additional genes to the system, leading to a more complex but more stable genetic network.
The authors report the identification of NfCYP51 as the essential Naegleria fowleri cytochrome P450 that catalyzes the conversion of 31-norlanosterol to lanosterol, the final precursor for ergosterol biosynthesis. The authors also report the first crystal structure of NfCYP51 and characterize the enzyme's function, including its substrate specificity, catalytic mechanism, and inhibition by azole antifungals.
This study highlights the critical role of IL-4Rα in maintaining the stability of the established host protective immune response against N . brasiliensis, a mouse model of helminth infection. After establishment of optimal Th2 responses, removal of IL-4Rα signaling from infected mice led to a significant reduction in host protective type 2 immune responses to a secondary challenge with the same parasite. This was accompanied by reduced production of type 2 cytokines, impaired effector cell expansion, and a significant reduction in humoral immunity. These findings suggest that sustained IL-4Rα signaling is important for the maintenance of established host protective immune responses against N . brasiliensis infection.
Bartonella is a bacterial genus with a wide range of hosts, including humans, rodents, and bats. Using genetic data, we inferred the evolutionary history of Bartonella and its relationships to other bacterial species. We found that Bartonella likely originated in the environment, and later became an insect commensal, before becoming a human pathogen. We also identified several human-to-human and human-to-animal spillover events, and found that rodents are the most common hosts of Bartonella. Our findings highlight the important role of humans and their associated animals in the evolution and spread of Bartonella, and the need to consider a broad range of potential hosts when investigating Bartonella infections.
The study reveals a new function for MALAT1, a long non-coding RNA, in regulating mitosis. MALAT1 depletion led to abnormal mitotic progression in human lung fibroblasts, and this phenotype was recapitulated by the simultaneous depletion of MALAT1 and p53. MALAT1 depletion also caused a decrease in the association of splicing factors with their target pre-mRNAs. Additionally, MALAT1 depletion led to changes in alternative splicing of mitotic genes, such as B-MYB and CENPE. The study provides evidence that MALAT1 plays a cell type-specific role in regulating mitosis.
The locust, Schistocerca gregaria, undergoes a unique form of diapause known as migratory diapause, which allows the insect to travel vast distances to reach favorable locations for breeding. During this period, the insects exhibit a synchronous ovarian cycle, leading to the development of multiple generations of eggs simultaneously. To understand the molecular basis of diapause and reproductive synchronization, we characterized the role of the JH-receptor complex, Met/SRC, in regulating the activity of Mcm genes involved in DNA replication. Our analysis revealed that JH promotes DNA replication in the fat body and polyploidy in the ovaries of migratory locusts through direct regulation of Mcm4 and Mcm7. Specifically, JH-Met/SRC induced Mcm4 and Mcm7 expression, which in turn, led to increased Mcm4 and Mcm7 activity. Our findings suggest that JH regulates DNA replication and polyploidy through direct regulation of Mcm genes, allowing the insect to produce large numbers of offspring at a favorable location.
The treatment of recent neuropathy in leprosy (RNI) has been a subject of debate for a long time. A recent study investigated the optimal treatment duration of prednisolone for recent neuropathy in leprosy. The study included a total of 574 patients from 12 centers in Southeast Asia who were randomly assigned to receive either 20 weeks or 32 weeks of prednisolone. The study found that both groups showed significant improvement in nerve function, but the 32-week group showed a slightly better response. The study also found that there was no difference in the incidence of adverse events between the two groups. These findings suggest that prednisolone can be effective in treating recent neuropathy in leprosy and that the duration of treatment may not be as important as previously thought. However, the study did have some limitations, such as the lack of a placebo control and the fact that patients were not blinded to their treatment. Future studies should address these limitations to further confirm the findings of this study.
In this study, we used a detailed model of the larynx to investigate the evolution of fundamental frequency (F0) variation between two closely related species of deer. We found that the difference in F0 between these two species is related to the structure of their larynxes. In particular, the elk has a stiffer and more muscular ligament than the red deer, which allows it to produce high frequency calls more efficiently. However, this comes at a cost of producing lower amplitude calls and requiring more energy to produce high frequency calls. We also found that the elk has a higher glottal efficiency at high F0, which is likely due to the stiffer ligament. These findings provide insights into how vocalizations evolved in these two species and highlight the importance of considering the mechanical constraints of the vocal apparatus when studying vocal communication.
Here, we present a novel approach to analyze ChIP-seq data that takes multi-read information into account. We demonstrate that multi-reads provide additional sequencing depth that can be utilized to identify more peaks and true positives at lower p-values. We also highlight that multi-reads can improve the accuracy of analysis in regions with low mappability or GC content, such as segmental duplications in genomes. Our approach utilizes a conditional binomial model that accounts for multi-reads and provides a way to use them in a meaningful manner. We show that our approach provides a significant increase in sequencing depth without requiring additional sequencing reads. Our approach is implemented in the MOSAiCS software package and is available for use with all ChIP-seq datasets.
The economic burden of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) was estimated based on the 2020 targets of the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases. The economic burden was estimated in terms of productivity loss, out-of-pocket payments, and opportunity costs of prevention. The economic benefits of reaching the 2020 targets for the 10 NTDs were estimated in terms of productivity gain and reduced out-of-pocket payments. The results showed that the economic benefit of achieving the 2020 targets would be substantial and would increase over the years. The results also showed that the highest economic benefit would be from the diseases with the highest prevalence in endemic countries. The results can help guide policy decisions regarding investments in the control and elimination of NTDs.
This manuscript presents a quantitative analysis of neural responses of cortical neurons to auditory tones of varying frequency. The authors first develop a decoding algorithm to determine whether a given neural response is generated in response to a particular stimulus. They use this algorithm to evaluate the decoding accuracy of single neurons in response to 13 different tones, and find that the decoding accuracy is highest for the 200-ms time window immediately following the onset of the tone, and that the accuracy is higher for stimuli presented at the lower frequencies. The authors then evaluate the overall decoding accuracy of populations of neurons, and find that the population decoding accuracy is much higher than the single-neuron decoding accuracy, and that the accuracy is highest for the 300-ms time window immediately following the onset of the tone, and that the accuracy is higher for stimuli presented at the lower frequencies. The authors then use the decoding algorithm to evaluate the information content of the neural responses to tones of different frequencies, and find that the information content is much higher for the 300-ms time window immediately following the onset of the tone, and that the information content is higher for stimuli presented at the lower frequencies. The authors then develop a model to explain the observed decoding accuracy and information content, and find that the model is in good agreement with the data.
T cell responses to viral infections are often impaired and ineffective, leading to severe disease outcomes. We have identified that OX40, a co-stimulatory molecule expressed on T cells, is critical for T cell function in the context of persistent viral infections. Our study shows that OX40 signaling is important for T cell survival and proliferation, as well as for the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, we have found that OX40 is critical for the accumulation of T cells in the germinal centers, where T cells undergo clonal expansion and differentiation. These findings suggest that OX40 plays a central role in T cell function in the context of persistent viral infections, and that OX40 signaling may be a target for therapeutic intervention in these cases.
The optimal swimming wave (OSW) is a key parameter that governs the propulsive efficiency of aquatic animals that swim with median/paired fins. The OSW is defined as the ratio of wavelength to amplitude of the wave form generated by undulatory fins. The OSW has been measured in six different species of aquatic animals that swim with median/paired fins. These measurements were made in a variety of situations, including free swimming, stationary swimming, and gliding. The OSW varies widely across species, ranging from 0.2 to 20.0. The OSW can be used to predict the swimming velocity of an animal for a given set of kinematic parameters (amplitude and frequency of undulations). The OSW is a key parameter that allows us to understand the functional relationships between the kinematic parameters of undulatory swimmers and their swimming velocity. The OSW can also be used to understand how the swimming velocity of an animal changes in response to changes in environmental conditions, such as temperature, salinity, and oxygen availability.
The current study compares the roles of two condensin complexes, condensin I and II, during neural stem cell (NSC) division. In contrast to condensin I, condensin II is essential for mitotic segregation and has a larger genome-wide influence on chromosome dynamics, yet condensin II is dispensable for normal NSC proliferation in mice.
We present here the transcriptome analysis of S. mansoni in 20 different life stages, from egg to adult, for both male and female worms. We highlight sex-biased genes that are involved in developmental pathways, in the sexual differentiation process, in the response to environment and in the host-parasite interaction. We also show that sex-biased expression of genes involved in chromatin remodeling and other DNA modifications is over-represented in male schistosomula and adult worms. The results provide new insights into the molecular basis of sexual differentiation in schistosomes and potential targets for new therapies.
Curators of biological data often assign discrete values, called "annotations," to pieces of the data. The discrete values can represent a variety of things, such as the location of a gene in a genome or the size of an experimental effect. When a piece of data is annotated, it is not clear which discrete value is the correct one. We have developed a method to estimate the probability that each discrete value is the correct one. This method has a number of potential applications. For example, we have used it to estimate how reliable the annotations are for a set of mouse genes, and we have used it to suggest improvements to the annotation process.
This study aimed to identify neutralizing epitopes of the Andes virus (ANDV) glycoproteins Gn and Gc that can be targeted by antibodies. The study used a DNA vaccine/goose platform to produce IgY antibodies against the ANDV Gn and Gc glycoproteins, and the efficacy of the resulting IgY antibodies against ANDV infection was evaluated in hamsters. The study found that a single immunization of the DNA vaccine produced high levels of IgY antibodies in goose eggs, and these antibodies were highly effective in preventing lethal ANDV infection in hamsters when administered as a post-exposure prophylactic. Additionally, the study identified five epitopes of the ANDV glycoproteins Gn and Gc that are highly immunogenic and elicit neutralizing antibodies. The study suggests that the DNA vaccine/goose platform could be used as a potential approach for developing therapeutic antibodies against ANDV.
A recent study has shown that DNMT3A, a DNA methyltransferase, is mutated in a high proportion of human colorectal cancer cells. In this study, the authors used mouse models to investigate the role of DNMT3A in tumorigenesis. They used a conditional knockout mouse model that targeted DNMT3A in K-ras-transformed lung epithelial cells. They found that DNMT3A deficiency led to increased tumor growth and more aggressive tumor phenotypes, such as papillary growth, high-grade dysplasia, and increased invasion. These results suggest that DNMT3A is a tumor suppressor in this mouse model. The authors also investigated the underlying mechanisms of DNMT3A deficiency-induced tumorigenesis. They found that DNMT3A deficiency led to reduced global DNA methylation and increased expression of multiple genes involved in the cell cycle and apoptosis. These results suggest that DNMT3A deficiency leads to increased tumorigenicity by disrupting epigenetic regulation of gene expression. The authors also found that DNMT3A deficiency led to increased expression of multiple microRNAs involved in tumorigenesis. These results suggest that DNMT3A deficiency leads to increased tumorigenicity by disrupting epigenetic regulation of microRNA expression. Overall, this study provides important insights into the role of DNMT3A in tumorigenesis and the underlying mechanisms of DNMT3A deficiency-induced tumorigenesis.
We found that projection neurons and interneurons in the songbird brain's HVC fire together in a stereotyped and coherent fashion during singing. Specifically, we found that these neurons fire together in a length-scale of around 100 μm and in a time-scale of around 30 Hz, which are similar to the length and time scales of LFPs in HVC. This suggests that the interplay of excitatory and inhibitory cells in HVC may be fundamental to the rhythmic and stereotyped production of bird song.
This article discusses the results of a study that aimed to identify essential genes that function in adulthood to regulate lifespan. The study used a genome-wide RNAi screen to identify 64 essential genes that extend lifespan when inactivated post-developmentally. These genes are highly conserved from yeast to humans, and many of them function in translation, RNA, and chromatin factors. The study also found that many of these essential genes cause larval arrest, and some of these arrested animals live much longer than wild-type adults. The findings suggest that insulin-signaling pathways play a role in regulation of aging at any stage in life, and that essential gene inactivations extend lifespan as much as the strongest known regulators of aging.
The regeneration of fins, limbs, and other appendages is a remarkable feature of many aquatic animals, including fish. However, the process of fin regeneration is poorly understood and the molecular mechanisms involved are largely unknown. In this study, the authors used a forward genetic screen to identify mutants that are defective in fin regeneration. They found a mutant, sde1, that has a temperature-sensitive regeneration defect. Further analysis of sde1 revealed that it encodes a paralog of the lamb1 gene, which is a component of the extracellular matrix. The authors found that the lamb1 gene is induced during fin regeneration and is required for the regeneration of the bone and osteoblasts. They also found that Fgf signaling is required for the induction of lamb1 during fin regeneration. This study provides important insights into the molecular mechanisms of fin regeneration.
The aim of this study was to compare the performance and power of various linear mixed model (LMM) packages for family-based genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We found that all LMM packages tested were able to produce accurate estimates of genetic effects and had similar levels of power, although the exact distribution of test statistics varied. The LMM packages tested were found to be equivalent in terms of their ability to correct for population stratification and for handling missing data. However, some LMM packages were found to be more computationally efficient, especially for larger data sets. Overall, our results suggest that LMM approaches are a convenient and powerful choice for family-based GWAS.
We have successfully optimized a simple and straight-forward assay that allows the high-throughput screening (HTS) of compounds against T . cruzi replicating within mammalian cells . The assay was performed on NIH-3T3 cells expressing a beta-galactosidase (β-gal) gene under the control of the T . cruzi promoter PCP4. The IC50 values for 2000 compounds were determined and we found 70 confirmed hits ( 3.5% ). After a secondary screening to eliminate false positive hits, we selected 3 promising candidates ( 0.15% ) that were active in the nanomolar range at the stage of intracellular replication of the T . cruzi parasites . The toxicity of these compounds was evaluated and none of them were toxic at the IC50 values obtained in the assay. We also found compounds that were active against T . cruzi extracellular replicative forms, but not against intracellular forms. These compounds were effective at inhibiting the initial infection of host cells by T . cruzi, but not effective in preventing the development of the intracellular forms of the parasites . The compounds we identified are promising candidates for further development of drugs against Chagas disease and related kinetoplastid parasites.
Our study describes the development of a novel diagnostic platform for the detection of filarial parasites, which can be used in the field without the need for expensive equipment. The platform is based on a rapid, low-cost DNA extraction method, followed by amplification using a miniaturized PCR instrument, and detection using test strips. The platform has the potential to greatly expand the reach of MX efforts, as it requires minimal equipment and can be carried out at the point-of-collection in remote locations with limited resources. We have demonstrated that this platform can reliably detect a single B. malayi L3-stage worm in pools of up to 25 uninfected mosquitoes. The development of a parallel assay for the detection of W. bancrofti will further empower local scientists by enabling their independent use of MX as a tool for the mapping of filarial parasite prevalence and for post-MDA surveillance.
We have developed a new modeling framework to study the impact of domain architecture on the morphology and structural integrity of elastomeric proteins. The framework was developed using an off-lattice based three dimensional environment that included both symmetric and asymmetric rods with various domain architectures. These rods were allowed to diffuse and aggregate to generate a polymeric matrix composed of elastomeric and cross-linking domains. The morphology and structure of these polymeric matrices were studied in detail using a number of metrics including mean aggregate length, aggregate density, mean rod length, mean rod connectivity and surface area. The morphology of the aggregates was found to be largely unaffected by the number of domains, but the number of cross-links formed was found to increase with an increasing number of domains. The structural integrity of the aggregates was found to depend on the domain architecture, with the most resilient aggregates being composed of asymmetric rods that had relatively small elastomeric domains interspersed with relatively large cross-linking domains. These findings suggest that the size of elastomeric domains may be important to the structural integrity of elastomeric proteins, while the size of cross-linking domains may be important to the self-assembly of these proteins.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the 5′-untranslated region (5′-UTR) of the filovirus Ebola virus (EBOV) in regulating viral protein translation. They find that a specific sequence, the uAUG, in the L-protein 5′-UTR acts as a weak translational initiation site, and its mutation increases L-protein translation. This increase in L-protein translation leads to a reduction in viral replication. The authors also find that the uAUG affects the replication of other EBOV proteins in a manner that depends on their 5′-UTRs. These findings suggest that the uAUG is a key component of EBOV's translation regulation and that its mutation may be a potential target for antiviral therapies.
Mapping DSBs to defined genomic regions in human chromosomes using RAFT preparations.
Trypanosomatids are flagellate parasites that infect many vertebrate species. We found that bats from two areas with different levels of human disturbance in the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, were infected by a high diversity of trypanosomatid species. The most frequently detected species were Trypanosoma cruzi, Trypanosoma dionisii and Trypanosoma rangeli. Additionally, we found evidence of infection by a putative monoxenous trypanosomatid, Crithidia mellificae, which is normally found in bees. Our results suggest that bats may serve as reservoirs of several trypanosomatid species, including those that can infect humans.
Tick-borne diseases are caused by a diverse range of pathogens including bacteria, viruses, and parasites. Ticks can be infected by multiple pathogens simultaneously, which is known as co-infection. The prevalence of co-infection in ticks is not well understood, but a recent study in France provides some insights. In this study, the authors analyzed the prevalence of co-infection in adult ticks using high-throughput sequencing technology. They found that 46.7% of ticks were infected with at least two pathogens, and 25.3% of ticks were infected with three or more pathogens. The most commonly co-infected pathogens were Borrelia burgdorferi, Borrelia afzelii, Borrelia garinii, and Babesia divergens. These findings suggest that co-infection is a common occurrence in ticks and highlights the need for further research to understand the potential consequences of co-infection on tick-borne disease transmission and severity.
Lay summary: This review outlines the current understanding of hematopoietic lineage commitment, with a focus on the molecular mechanisms underlying erythroid and myeloid lineage decisions. The review highlights recent advances in understanding the genetic networks and signaling pathways that regulate these processes, with an emphasis on the interplay between transcription factors and co-factors. The authors discuss the role of feedback loops in lineage commitment and the implications of lineage plasticity for the treatment of hematologic malignancies. They also highlight emerging technologies, such as single-cell sequencing and computational modeling, that are likely to accelerate our understanding of lineage commitment in the coming years.
The study by Valle et al. (2021) is a follow-up of their previous work on the role of the EPA polysaccharide in the virulence of the human pathogen Enterococcus faecalis. In their previous study, the authors found that EPA is essential for E. faecalis to adhere to host cells and survive in the host environment. In this study, the authors further investigate the role of EPA in the ability of E. faecalis to cause disease in zebrafish, a well-established animal model for studying bacterial infections. They do this by using transposon mutagenesis to identify genes involved in EPA biosynthesis that are required for virulence in zebrafish. The authors identify a gene encoding an EPA biosynthesis enzyme, oatA, that is required for E. faecalis to cause disease in zebrafish. They also show that the oatA gene is essential for E. faecalis to cause disease in mice, further supporting its importance in virulence. The study provides important new insights into the role of EPA in the pathogenesis of E. faecalis.
The study presented by Yu and colleagues has explored the mechanisms underlying AML, particularly, by investigating the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network in this cancer. The analysis combined information from various genomic datasets, such as expression, DNA methylation, miRNA expression, and CNV data from TCGA, as well as TF binding data from ENCODE. The study has identified a number of novel miRNA-mRNA regulatory pairs that may play important roles in the regulation of AML. Additionally, the study has identified a number of TFs that may be important regulators of AML. The study has also performed a network analysis that has identified a number of miRNA-mRNA regulatory pathways that may be important in the regulation of AML. The study has also explored the potential of using the identified regulatory interactions for prognostic prediction in AML. Overall, the study has provided important insights into the mechanisms underlying AML, and has identified potential targets for therapeutic intervention in this cancer.
ChNRV1 is a new member of the plant and animal viruses that has been found in the fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum. These viruses are called "RNA viruses" because they are composed of RNA instead of DNA. The authors describe how they found ChNRV1 and provide details about its genome and structure. They also explain how they used small RNA sequencing to understand the function of ChNRV1 and the mechanisms by which it interacts with its host.
We have recently identified that Mof, a homologue of yeast Mnd1, plays a critical role in meiotic prophase I by regulating H2A phosphorylation and DSB repair. In this study, we further investigated the function of Mof in the three waves of H2AX phosphorylation. Using Stra8-Cre;Moffl/fl mice, we show that Mof is essential for the first two waves of H2AX phosphorylation expansion but not for the third wave. Our data demonstrate that Mof is required for the initiation of the first wave of H2AX phosphorylation at leptonema and zygotene. During pachynema, Mof is required for the expansion of H2AX phosphorylation and recruitment of DMC1 and RAD51, but is dispensable for DSB repair. Our study provides further insight into the function of Mof in meiotic prophase I.
This paper describes the development of a new mouse model to study human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) infection in vivo. The authors used Rag2-/-γc-/- mice, which lack functional T and B cells, and transplanted them with human CD34+ cord blood cells. These mice were then infected with HTLV-1 through transplantation of lethally irradiated MT-2 cells. The authors observed that HTLV-1 infection of these mice led to a progressive expansion of CD4+ CD25+ CD8- T cells, which are characteristic of HTLV-1-associated T-cell leukemia. The authors also used this model to study the role of Tax, an oncoprotein encoded by the virus, in the pathogenesis of HTLV-1-associated T-cell leukemia. They found that Tax expression led to an expansion of CD4+ CD25+ CD8- T cells and a decrease in apoptosis. The authors conclude that this new mouse model provides a valuable tool for studying the pathogenesis of HTLV-1-associated T-cell leukemia in vivo.
Schistosomiasis, caused by parasitic flatworms, is a major public health problem in many low- and middle-income countries. We report the results of a comprehensive schistosomiasis control project in White Nile State, Sudan, which was implemented over 6 years. The project included praziquantel treatment, health education, and the provision of clean drinking water. The prevalence of urogenital schistosomiasis decreased from 34.4% to 18.9% after 2 years of mass treatment with praziquantel. Health education, particularly for village children, contributed to the reduction of reinfection. The prevalence of intestinal schistosomiasis was already low and did not change significantly after treatment. Provision of clean drinking water did not reduce the prevalence of schistosomiasis, but did improve awareness of the importance of clean water. The project was implemented within existing health structures and used existing data collection systems, and can serve as a model for other settings.
We found that NiV-M is imported into the nucleus through an NES that contains residues K258 and K263, and is exported through an NES that includes residues L106, L107, and L268. Ubiquitination of K258 is required for efficient nuclear export. Inhibition of the proteasome with MG132 or bortezomib reduces viral titers during live NiV infection. Our results suggest the possibility of using bortezomib as a therapeutic against acute NiV infection.
We have established a single virus-tracking method for viruses that allows the simultaneous visualization of viral genome release and entry into cells, and the analysis of the effects of drugs on these processes. We used this method to investigate the roles of the endocytic pathway and acidification in RNA release and entry of poliovirus. Our results suggest that acidification is not required for entry of poliovirus and that endocytosis is not involved in the RNA release process, which instead takes place near the cell surface. Our findings also show that clathrin, caveolin, and flotillin are not involved in entry or RNA release of poliovirus.
The article provides a description of the health education provided for dengue fever in Cambodia. The education is provided through community outreach activities and school-based programs. The article highlights the limitations of the education provided, such as the lack of financial resources, the low quality of health education materials, and the limited training of health workers in health education. The article also notes the importance of community involvement in dengue prevention and control efforts, and the need for effective health education to promote dengue prevention and control activities. The article concludes that improving the quality and effectiveness of dengue health education in Cambodia requires addressing the underlying issues that limit the provision of effective health education, such as financial resources and health worker training.
We searched for miRNAs in the blood of dogs and humans infected with filarial nematodes. These are tiny worms that can cause serious health problems in humans and dogs. We found many potential miRNAs in the blood of infected dogs and humans. These miRNAs might be useful as diagnostic markers for infection. We also tested some miRNAs using a machine called RT-qPCR. We found that some of these miRNAs were present in much higher amounts in infected dogs and humans than in uninfected dogs and humans. However, we also found that the miRNAs were not always present in the same amounts in different infected dogs and humans. This may be because different infected dogs and humans have different numbers of worms in their bodies. We also tested one miRNA in dogs and humans infected with different species of nematodes. We found that this miRNA was present in much higher amounts in dogs and humans infected with the filarial nematode Dirofilaria immitis than in dogs and humans infected with other nematodes. This miRNA might be useful as a diagnostic marker for infection with Dirofilaria immitis.
The conformational activation of the protein Src involves a transition between its inactive and active states. The transition is a kinetically slow process that is difficult to probe by experiment and is challenging to simulate by all-atom molecular dynamics. We present a coarse-grained model to investigate Src conformational activation that incorporates features of both the Gō-like model and the two-phase transition model. The model is based on a simplified residue level representation of the Src catalytic domain and includes conformational changes that take place on multiple time scales. The model is implemented as an energy function that can be used in molecular dynamics simulations. By performing simulations using the model, we explore the conformational landscape of the Src transition and identify transition pathways. We also use a Markov model to analyze the transitions between conformational states and find that the system is Markovian. Our results suggest that the conformational transition in the Src catalytic domain is controlled by a combination of residue-level and domain-level interactions, and that the transition occurs through a combination of coordinated conformational changes and kinetically slow unfolding.
In this study, we identified new genetic loci associated with the interploidy barrier of Arabidopsis thaliana. These loci are linked to the maternal genotype and can be present in diploid or tetraploid individuals. We show that the maternal genotype determines the strength of the interploidy barrier and that it is not limited to a single locus. Our results suggest that the maternal genotype of Arabidopsis is sufficient to maintain a strong interploidy barrier, even when the paternal genotype is non-viable. We also provide evidence that the maternal genotype is important for seed viability and that the interploidy barrier is linked to maternal control of seed development. Our results suggest that maternal control of seed development may be an important mechanism underlying the interploidy barrier, and that the maternal genotype determines the strength of the barrier.
We explored the evolutionary relationships between three different mammalian hosts and their respective bacterial pathogens using different phylogenetic methods. Our results show that coevolutionary patterns are generally significant for Bartonella in bats and Leptospira in rodents, although there are variations in coevolutionary patterns depending on the host species. We found that host-parasite coevolutionary relationships are stronger in bats than in rodents. Our results provide insight into the evolution of the interactions between mammalian hosts and their pathogens, which could help in understanding how these interactions impact the ecology of host species and the transmission dynamics of pathogens.
Understanding how fish swim is an important topic in biomechanics and robotics. In this article, the authors propose a forced damped oscillation framework to explain how swimming movement is generated in response to muscle and/or environmental forcing. They show that the swimming movement of fish can be explained as a superposition of various deformation modes that are triggered in response to the forcing. The authors also identify key parameters, such as body stiffness and frequency of muscle activation, that are important for efficient swimming. These findings can have implications for the design of biomimetic underwater robots and provide insights into how swimming evolved in animals.
African trypanosomes have been found to hybridize with different subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei in vitro, creating new genetic combinations. The virulence gene SRA has been found to be transferred from one subspecies to another during this process, potentially creating new pathogenic hybrids. This raises concerns about the increased risk of new human infective strains being generated, as well as the possibility of these strains causing HAT outbreaks.
Our previous work demonstrated that the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, which encode subunits of the potassium channel, are responsible for non-diabetic nephropathy (NDN) in AKI mice. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of NDN by KCNJ11 and ABCC8 are not fully understood. To elucidate these mechanisms, we developed a computational model based on the islet microenvironment of the pancreas and the functions of the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 subunits of the potassium channel. Our model demonstrated that the NDN phenotype caused by KCNJ11 and ABCC8 mutations was mediated by reduced open probability of KATP channels, decreased excitability of β-cells, and reduced insulin secretion. Our model also suggested that the NDN phenotype caused by KCNJ11 and ABCC8 mutations was mediated by increased stochastic noise in the islet microenvironment. These findings provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of NDN by KCNJ11 and ABCC8 mutations, and may contribute to the development of new therapies for NDN.
In this paper, we presented a new framework for analyzing and designing synthetic gene regulatory networks. This framework is based on the idea that the retroactivity of a module (the effect of the module on its neighbors) is a key parameter to consider when designing gene regulatory circuits. We introduced three new retroactivity matrices that capture the effects of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity on the dynamics of a module and its connected neighbors. We showed how these matrices can be used to analyze the dynamics of a wide range of natural and synthetic modules, and we introduced a new metric for robustness to interconnection that is based on these matrices. We also presented a few examples of how this framework can be used to design synthetic circuits with robust behavior.
We have built the first LD-based genetic map for the human PAR1, a region known for its high recombination rate. Our map is significantly more precise than previous LD-based maps, because it is based on crossover events observed in 135 African-American pedigrees. We have also developed a novel approach to map mutational patterns to recombination events, which revealed a strong bias towards GC-rich sequences in humans. Our results suggest that this bias results from a functional role for PRDM9 in positioning recombination events in humans. The map we have built will be a valuable resource for future studies of genetic variation in this important region of the genome.
We show here that the expression of the myogenic bHLH transcription factor MyoD is regulated by the histone-lysine demethylase JMJD2A. In particular, we demonstrate that ΔN-JMJD2A, a JMJD2A isoform lacking the N-terminal half of the protein, is required for accurate MyoD expression during muscle differentiation. We further demonstrate that ΔN-JMJD2A directly regulates the MyoD gene by recruiting the histone demethylase JMJD2C to the MyoD promoter to demethylate H3K9. This recruitment involves a Tudor domain in the C-terminal part of JMJD2A, which interacts with methylated H3K9. Our results indicate that the recruitment of JMJD2C to the MyoD promoter by ΔN-JMJD2A is required for accurate MyoD expression, thereby providing a molecular explanation for the myogenic defects observed in ΔN-JMJD2A knockout mice.
This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of the Guinea-worm Eradication Programme (GWEP), which aims to eliminate the disease caused by Guinea worms. The study used a Markov model to simulate the number of cases, deaths, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) over a 1986–2030 period, with and without the GWEP. The study found that the GWEP was cost-effective compared to a null scenario in which no intervention took place. The cost per case averted was estimated at US$ 11 in 2020, and the cost per DALY averted was estimated at US$ 222 in 1986–2030. The study also found that the GWEP was more cost-effective compared to a control scenario in which surveillance and outbreak response activities continued but with decreasing costs over time. The study concluded that the GWEP is cost-effective even if economic costs are two times higher than estimated.
This work presents the crystal structure of BBK32-C, a C1r inhibitor from the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, at atomic resolution. The structure provides a molecular basis for understanding the mechanism of inhibition of C1r by BBK32-C. The structure also identifies a novel function for C1r as an activator of the serine protease BBK32-C. The study also includes functional assays demonstrating the biological activity of BBK32-C in inhibiting the classical complement pathway.
This study has identified that the phosphorylation of Fkh2 by Cdc28-Cln3/Cln1 is required for the positive regulation of genes involved in invasive growth and pathogenesis in C . albicans. The fkh2 ( 6A ) mutant, which cannot be phosphorylated at the Cdc28-Cln3/Cln1 target site, fails to induce the virulence-associated genes HGC1 and SUN41 on hyphal induction and is defective in biofilm formation and hyphal growth. Our study provides a new regulatory mechanism by which C . albicans specifically modifies a key component of its cell cycle transcription machinery by phosphorylation, in order to positively regulate genes involved in invasive growth and pathogenesis.
The study reveals that the deoxyribonucleoside 5'-deoxyuridine (dU) is an important intermediate in the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway of Trypanosoma brucei, a parasite responsible for sleeping sickness in sub-Saharan Africa. The study uncovers that dU is generated by a 5'-nucleotidase enzyme, which converts deoxyribonucleotides to deoxyribonucleosides, and that this enzyme is essential for parasite survival. The study also identifies a novel role for the pyrimidine metabolic pathway in the parasite's adaptation to the host environment and response to metabolic stress. Overall, this study provides important insights into the biology of T. brucei and could inform the development of new drugs targeting the pyrimidine metabolic pathway for the treatment of sleeping sickness.
The authors have provided a detailed analysis of translation initiation in prokaryotes. They identified a specific motif in the 5' UTR of genes that do not contain an SD sequence, which they term the "Shine-Dalgarno"-like motif. They then searched for this motif in all prokaryotic genomes and found that it was present in all species. The authors also showed that this motif is necessary for translation initiation in these species. Additionally, they showed that this motif is likely recognized by an RNA structure that is different from the SD structure and that this recognition is independent of the presence of an SD sequence. Overall, this work provides a valuable resource for understanding translation initiation in prokaryotes.
This paper describes the characteristics of patients who developed Post-Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis (PKDL) after being treated for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) with 20 mg/kg liposomal amphotericin B (Ambisome) in India. PKDL is a skin condition that can develop after treatment for VL, and is caused by the parasite Leishmania donovani. The paper reports that 0.3% of patients who received treatment for VL with Ambisome developed PKDL. The median time to develop PKDL was 1.2 years after treatment, which is shorter than the median time of 2.9 years for patients who were treated with sodium stibogluconate and developed PKDL. The paper also describes the differences between the PKDL cases that developed after treatment with Ambisome and those that developed after treatment with sodium stibogluconate, such as the macular morphology of the lesions. The paper concludes that PKDL following treatment with 20 mg/kg Ambisome is infrequent and there are no predictive risk factors for its development. The shorter median time to develop symptoms of PKDL compared with that after conventional VL treatments should be taken into account when counseling patients treated with regimens including Ambisome.
In this study, we analyzed the spatiotemporal dynamics of Chagas disease vectors (Triatoma infestans) in two Argentinean villages. We found that the number of established bugs and the rate of establishment after extinction were influenced by distance to source sites, host availability, infestation history, and spraying history. The latter effect was more pronounced for infested than uninfested target sites. We found that bugs established more quickly on sites that were not infested in the previous survey and on sites that were previously uninfested but became infested in the following survey. We also found that bug establishment was higher in the period from May to November than from November to May. Our results suggest that insecticide spraying can help decrease bug establishment on target sites, especially when infested sites are sprayed, but that more complex models are needed to better understand the underlying processes of insect dispersal and mortality.
We studied the dynamics of SV40 viral DNA replication in vivo in hamsters using a novel method to detect viral DNA. We show that SV40 DNA is broadly distributed in many tissues, including the liver, kidney, spleen, and brain, with the highest levels in the liver and kidney. We find that SV40 viral DNA replication is a dynamic process, with high levels of viral DNA replication early after infection followed by a decline, possibly due to immune clearance. We also find that there is a high rate of cell turnover in infected tissues, which may contribute to the persistence of SV40 infection.
We applied a Bayesian approach to identify positive selection in protein-coding genes of mammals using information from multiple species. First, we constructed a phylogeny that included a human reference sequence and five other mammalian species. We then obtained the gene alignments for the six species and identified orthologous gene pairs. For each gene, we performed a likelihood ratio test to compare the null hypothesis of neutral evolution with the alternative hypothesis of positive selection on a branch leading to the human lineage. We estimated the posterior probability of the alternative hypothesis, which represents the probability that positive selection has occurred on the human lineage given the data, and the posterior probability of the null hypothesis, which represents the probability that the data do not provide evidence of positive selection on the human lineage. We also estimated the posterior probability of positive selection on each of the five other mammalian species. We identified the genes with a posterior probability of positive selection on the human lineage >0.05 as candidate genes for positive selection. We used these genes to identify candidate genes that have undergone positive selection in the human lineage but not in the other mammalian species. We used a likelihood ratio test to test whether the candidate genes are more likely to be under positive selection in the human lineage than in the other species. We also used Bayesian analysis to identify the specific regions of the human genome that have undergone positive selection. We identified 10,040 candidate genes that were likely to be under positive selection in the human lineage but not in the other mammalian species. We identified 10,040 specific regions of the human genome that were likely to be under positive selection in the human lineage but not in the other species.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is a common human pathogen that causes skin infections, pneumonia, and sepsis. S. aureus biofilms, which are communities of cells embedded in a matrix of extracellular polysaccharides, are associated with chronic infections and antibiotic resistance. In this study, the authors investigated the role of phenol-soluble modulins (PSMs) in S. aureus biofilm formation. PSMs are small peptides produced by S. aureus that have antimicrobial activity against other bacteria and fungi. The authors used genetic and biochemical methods to show that PSMs play a role in S. aureus biofilm formation and that the presence of PSMs can increase the antibiotic resistance of biofilms.
The parasite Trypanosoma cruzi causes the Chagas disease, which affects millions of people worldwide. The disease progresses through various stages, and current treatment options are limited and can be ineffective for the chronic phase of the disease. Monitoring treatment response is therefore essential to ensure that patients are receiving effective therapy. Current methods for monitoring parasitological cure are limited and unreliable, particularly in chronic phase patients. In this study, we developed and tested a new approach to monitor parasitological cure based on the detection of antibodies specific to T. cruzi proteins in blood samples. We analyzed data from 1,654 patients from Brazil, Colombia, and other countries using a multi-antigen ELISA test that assessed reactivity against 15 different T. cruzi proteins. We identified a single antibody (Ab3) that was highly reactive in T. cruzi-infected patients and had superior sensitivity for parasite persistence as compared to PCR, which is the current gold standard for parasitological cure. We also developed a prediction algorithm based on Ab3 reactivity that was able to separate patients with parasite persistence from those with parasite clearance with high accuracy. Our results suggest that Ab3 could be a valuable biomarker for monitoring parasite persistence in T. cruzi-infected patients.
CHIKV is a mosquito-borne virus that causes acute and chronic joint pain in humans. We developed a novel mouse model using the CHIKV-3′-Cre construct that allows us to track CHIKV infection and cellular changes associated with acute and chronic arthritis in real-time. Using this model, we identified a population of tdTomato+ macrophages that persist in the ankle joints of infected mice. We found that these macrophages are a source of CHIKV viremia and contribute to joint inflammation in the acute phase. Furthermore, we discovered that these cells were able to survive the chronic phase of infection and maintain their ability to produce CHIKV. We also found that the macrophage-specific antiviral protein Mxra8 is sufficient to suppress acute CHIKV infection but unable to prevent the chronic phase. Our model provides a valuable tool for understanding the pathophysiology of CHIKV infection and for developing therapeutic strategies for the treatment of arthritis associated with this virus.
This paper presents a computational analysis of shared population activity in the visual cortex of macaque monkeys. The authors analyze the shared covariance of spike counts across neurons in primary visual cortex and model the shared population activity in simulations of a spiking network. They find that shared population activity has a low dimensionality, with only a small number of modes explaining a large percentage of the shared covariance. They also find that shared population activity is more complex and diverse in the macaque visual cortex than in a simulated network. The authors propose that the clustering of excitatory neurons in the macaque visual cortex may explain some of this complexity.
In this study, the authors used an in vivo murine model of burn wound infection to investigate the protective effects of 2-AA against P. aeruginosa. They found that 2-AA can reduce the mortality rate of burn-infected mice, and reduce the number of bacterial colonies in the burn site. They also found that 2-AA can reduce the levels of IL-1α, IL-1β, and TNF-α in the blood of burn-infected mice, indicating that it can help to regulate the inflammatory response to infection. Overall, the authors suggest that 2-AA may be a useful therapeutic agent for the treatment of burn wound infections.
The evolutionary history of L1TD1, an intronic gene derived from an ancient L1 element, is traced back to the common ancestor of all placental mammals. Using a combination of comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and phylogenetic analysis, the authors find that L1TD1 has experienced diversifying selection in primates, and that L1TD1 may have a role in pluripotency maintenance in humans. However, they also find that L1TD1 has been lost in multiple mammalian lineages, and that its role in pluripotency maintenance is not present in all mammals. The authors suggest that L1TD1 may have evolved as an anti-L1 element to repress L1 activity.
The RNA-binding protein YbeY is essential for cell viability in E. coli and Vibrio cholerae . In this study, we have determined the structural and functional properties of YbeY from V. cholerae. First, we have shown that YbeY is an RNA-binding protein, with a preference for double-stranded RNA over single-stranded RNA. Second, we have shown that YbeY is essential for 16 S and 23 S rRNA biogenesis in V. cholerae. Third, we have shown that YbeY is essential for the activity of the RNase R enzyme, which is involved in 16 S and 23 S rRNA biogenesis. Finally, we have shown that YbeY is essential for the activity of the RNase III enzyme, which is involved in 5 S rRNA biogenesis. These results highlight the importance of YbeY in RNA metabolism and suggest that it is a key player in the RNA-protein network that regulates RNA biogenesis in V. cholerae.
We present a comprehensive analysis of the assortativity of human transcriptional regulatory networks (TFNs). We use an extensive set of 41 human TFNs, each consisting of up to 256 transcription factors (TFs), and find that the observed assortativity of these networks deviates from the null expectation. Specifically, we find that the distribution of in-out assortativity is biased towards a small set of TFs that possess both high in- and high out-degrees. These outliers are accompanied by a set of TFs that possess both low in- and low out-degrees, a phenomenon we refer to as anti-assortativity. We find that the anti-assortativity of these networks is statistically significant, and occurs due to a bias in the degree distribution of these networks. This bias is a consequence of a process that has been observed in many biological networks , where highly connected nodes tend to have higher degrees than expected. We observe that the assortativity of TFNs decreases with increasing degree bias, and that the out-out component of the signature is the most influential for predicting network robustness in dense TFNs. We also find that out-out assortativity is more robust to random TF removal than any of the other components of the signature. In addition, we observe that the sensitivity of the signature to hub TF removal is dependent upon the degree distribution of the TFN. These findings provide new insights into the structure of TFNs, and may contribute to our understanding of transcriptional regulation and the origin of disease.
We assessed the information encoding performance of cortical neurons in response to stimuli varying in both the location and frequency of the deflections applied to a whisker. We found that, under these conditions, individual neurons encode information about the location of the stimulus more efficiently than about its frequency. We also found that ensemble information encoding depends on the number of neurons, with small ensembles being less efficient than large ones, but with the information redundancy decreasing as the number of neurons increases. These results are consistent with the idea that information redundancy is necessary for the efficient encoding of information by cortical neurons, and that the size of cortical ensembles is adapted to efficiently encode information about the spatial location of a stimulus while minimizing information redundancy.
We have engineered a bacterial system that performs an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) with riboregulation, and programmed it to compute the sum and carry of a binary number encoded into two molecules of isopropyl β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and aTc. The system consists of four synthetic riboregulators, three transcriptional factors, and two fluorescent proteins, and uses post-transcriptional regulation to control translation. We have devised a design for the ALU that is robust to variation in the copy number of the genetic circuit and to changes in gene expression. We have also developed a mathematical model to understand the performance of the ALU and to identify design parameters that can be optimized. Our study shows that synthetic biology provides a powerful tool for programming biology to perform arithmetic computations, which could be used to build biocomputers.
In this study, a novel series of phosphonate ribonucleoside analogs were designed and synthesized as inhibitors of human cN-II enzyme. Docking studies were performed using the best ligands and a crystal structure of human cN-II in complex with IMP. This study provides a rational design of a new series of compounds that can be considered as promising inhibitors for cN-II.
In this study, the infectivity of milk and colostrum from naturally incubating ewes with scrapie was investigated using a transgenic mouse model. We found that milk and colostrum from ewes with scrapie-associated lymphoproliferative mastitis contained infectious prions. Our study provides the first direct evidence that scrapie-associated lymphoproliferative mastitis can increase the shedding of prions in milk, and that milk from scrapie-incubating ewes can contain infectious prions. However, the prion infectivity shedding in milk from ewes with scrapie-associated lymphoproliferative mastitis was low, and its impact on the global transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) dietary exposure remains to be determined.
Ebola virus disease (EVD) is a rare but severe and often fatal infection caused by the Ebola virus. During the 2014–2015 EVD outbreak in West Africa, 10,156 confirmed cases were reported in Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone, resulting in 2,835 deaths. In this study, we used laboratory data from the EVD outbreak in Liberia to analyze the demographic and clinical characteristics of confirmed cases. We found that 40% of confirmed cases were women or girls, and that the proportion of cases living in the capital city was higher than the proportion of cases living in rural areas. We also found that CFR decreased over the course of the outbreak, and that young children and the elderly were at higher risk for fatality. These findings provide important information for understanding the EVD outbreak in West Africa and may help inform future outbreaks.
Tyrosinase is a key enzyme for the oxidation of phenolic compounds, such as tyrosine and dopamine. Tyrosinase is composed of two subunits, each of which contains a copper ion. The reaction mechanism of tyrosinase has been proposed as a one-electron transfer reaction from the copper ion of one subunit to the copper ion of the other subunit. However, the details of the reaction mechanism have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we have determined the crystal structure of tyrosinase in complex with the caddie Tyr98 residue and the products of the hydroxylation reaction, and we have proposed a new reaction mechanism of tyrosinase. Our crystal structures suggest that the caddie Tyr98 residue is bound to the copper ion of the deoxy form of tyrosinase, which is formed in the first half of the reaction cycle. Subsequent hydroxylation of the caddie Tyr98 residue is initiated by a syn-to-anti rearrangement of the copper ligands, which is triggered by the migration of CuA. The movement of CuA generates the deoxy2 form of tyrosinase and enables the formation of a hydroxylated intermediate. The intermediate is finally converted to the product, and the reaction is completed by the formation of a new deoxy form of tyrosinase.
The goal of this study is to understand how NPA1-HTP (a component of the CCR4-NOT complex) interacts with other proteins in the complex, including Dbp6p, Rsa3p, Nhp2p, Npa1p, and Npa2p. These proteins are involved in the removal of mRNA poly-A tails and may play a role in snoRNA processing. The authors used yeast two-hybrid screening to identify interactions between the proteins, and then used co-immunoprecipitation, yeast three-hybrid, and pull-down assays to confirm and characterize these interactions. They also used RNAi and mutational analysis to determine the role of each protein in mRNA poly-A tail removal and snoRNA processing. The results of this study will provide insight into the function and structure of the CCR4-NOT complex.
In this study, we investigated the effects of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) on learning and decision making in humans. Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter that plays an important role in a variety of cognitive processes, including attention, arousal, and memory. We used a task in which participants had to predict the outcome of random events and update their predictions based on new information. We found that participants made more accurate predictions and had faster learning rates when they received a single dose of NE than when they received a placebo. These effects were mediated by changes in the brain's activity as measured by electroencephalography (EEG). Specifically, we found that NE increased the amplitude of a brain wave called the P3, which is thought to reflect the brain's ability to integrate and update information. We also found that NE increased the activity of brain regions that are involved in attention and memory, such as the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. These findings suggest that NE plays an important role in learning and decision making, and that it may be a useful therapeutic target for a variety of cognitive disorders.
This study describes the implementation and results of a syndromic surveillance system named EPIMIC, which is based on Microsoft Excel, in two rural point-of-care laboratories in Senegal. The system was implemented to monitor 15 different infectious diseases diagnosed by 27 different tests performed in the laboratories. The study found that EPIMIC was successfully implemented and allowed for the detection of 443 alarms related to 15 different pathogens over a 5-year period in Dielmo and Ndiop, and 14 alarms related to 4 different pathogens over a 1-year period in Niakhar. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of EPIMIC in monitoring infectious diseases in rural areas with limited resources.
The study investigates the role of gap junction-mediated calcium signaling in endothelial cells, specifically focusing on the architecture-dependent nature of this signaling. The authors found that histamine-induced calcium signaling is architecture-dependent and occurs only in capillary-like networks and hexagonal cell networks. The study suggests that the number of neighboring cells plays a role in regulating calcium signaling and that gap junction-mediated calcium signaling may contribute to the specificity of histamine-induced permeability in different vascular structures.
This study explores the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of different regions of the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) G protein. The RSV G protein is highly conserved among strains of RSV, and antibodies against it have been shown to provide some level of protection against RSV infection. In this study, the authors evaluate the immunogenicity of three regions of the RSV G protein, including the highly conserved central domain (CD) and two non-central regions (NCR1 and NCR2). The authors use a variety of methods to evaluate the immunogenicity of these regions, including plaque reduction neutralization tests (PRNT), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), and live imaging of infected mice. The authors find that all three regions are immunogenic, but that the NCR1 and NCR2 regions provide stronger protection against RSV infection than the CD region in mouse models.
This study describes the role of Brr2, a component of the spliceosome, in controlling the specification of a neuropeptidergic identity in the Drosophila embryonic central nervous system. Brr2 is a subunit of the spliceosome, a protein complex that mediates the splicing of pre-messenger RNA molecules to remove introns and generate mature mRNA molecules. In the embryonic central nervous system, Brr2 is specifically required for the proper specification of the neuropeptidergic identity of the Tv4 neuron. This is achieved through its role in three different steps involved in the specification process: axonal pathfinding, Dimm expression, and the activation of the BMP signaling pathway. The study demonstrates that Brr2 is required for the proper axonal pathfinding of the Tv4 neuron, which is necessary for BMP ligand reception and the activation of the BMP signaling pathway. It also shows that Brr2 is required for the proper expression of the neuropeptidergic genes Nplp1 and proFMRFa, which are involved in the specification process. The study identifies Brr2 as a specific component of the spliceosome that regulates cell-specific aspects of neural development.
This study describes a novel pathway for the degradation of F-box proteins in yeast. F-box proteins are known to form part of the SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, which recognizes and ubiquitinates substrate proteins for degradation. However, the study shows that there is a second pathway for F-box protein degradation in yeast that does not involve SCF E3 ligase complexes. The authors find that the Cdc53 E2 ubiquitin ligase can directly bind the F-box protein Met30 and that this binding is dependent on the F-box domain of Met30. They also find that the stability of Met30 is regulated by the presence of its binding partner, the F-box protein Met4, which is ubiquitinated by the SCF E3 ligase complex containing Met30. These findings suggest that the Cdc53 E2 ligase may have an important role in the regulation of F-box protein stability in yeast.
Using a variety of methods, we have demonstrated that KIF1A motors exist as dimers in mammalian cells. We have also shown that KIF1A motors undergo rapid 1D diffusion on microtubules and that this diffusion is not affected by ATP hydrolysis. This finding has important implications for our understanding of how KIF1A motors function in vivo.
In the study, we performed QTL analysis on metabolite levels in two tomato tissues (seeds and fruits) and compared them. We identified 46 QTL in the seeds and 62 QTL in the fruits. We also constructed metabolic networks using correlation analysis and found that the seed metabolic network is much denser and more interconnected than the fruit metabolic network. We also found that the amino acid metabolism is closely related in both tissues. These findings provide important information for understanding the metabolic differences between seeds and fruits and the mechanisms underlying these differences.
The bacterial protein GbpA is involved in adhering to chitin and mucin. GbpA has been found to protect Vibrio cholerae from chitin-induced killing. The structure of GbpA has been determined by X-ray crystallography, revealing a previously unknown α-β-α fold, with two distinct α-helices. GbpA binds to chitin via a newly described carbohydrate-binding module. GbpA also binds to mucin, which is important for the adherence of V. cholerae to the human intestine. GbpA has been implicated in the pathogenesis of V. cholerae infection.
In this study, the authors investigated the T cell response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in individuals with active and latent tuberculosis infection. They used a new method of sorting T cells based on the expression of HLA-DR. They found that the frequency of HLA-DR-expressing cells was significantly higher in individuals with active TB and these cells had a higher expression of CCR5 and PD-L1. They also found that the expression of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL5 increased in individuals with active TB, while the expression of CCL22 decreased. The authors suggest that HLA-DR-expressing cells could be used as a biomarker for disease severity and response to therapy in TB.
Prions are infectious proteins that can cause neurodegenerative diseases in mammals. To identify prions and study their properties, scientists use cell-based assays that can determine which cells are infected with prions, how much prion protein is present in the cells, and how much of the protein is in the conformation that is infectious to other cells. In this study, researchers infected cells with a mouse version of a prion disease, called RML, and cloned variants of the prion from the infected cells. They then characterized these variants using cell-based assays. Some variants were not infectious to other cells, suggesting that they may be less likely to cause disease, while others were as infectious as the original RML prion. By analyzing the properties of these variants, researchers can better understand the structural requirements for prion infection and pathogenesis.
Drosophila embryos are made of hundreds of cells and need to be patterned precisely to form the right body segments and organs. A protein called "Zld" helps with this by binding to DNA and changing how genes are expressed. Other proteins called "Brk" and "pMad" are also involved in this process. We used a new technique called "ChIP-seq" to map the regions in the genome where these proteins bind to DNA. We found that Zld, Brk, and pMad all bind to many different regions of the genome, and that their binding patterns are similar. We also found that some regions of the genome where these proteins bind are also bound by other proteins, including "dpp" and "egfr". These other proteins might also be important for the patterns of gene expression in the embryo. We used computer programs to look for patterns in the data, and we found that regions where Zld, Brk, and pMad bind to DNA might be important for the right expression patterns of many genes. We also found that regions where Zld, Brk, and pMad bind to DNA might be important for the right expression patterns of genes that are needed for the development of the embryo. This information might help us understand how the right patterns of gene expression are created in the embryo.
In this article, we describe the genetic diversity and evolution of Leishmania major, the causative agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis, in Tunisia, North Africa. We analyzed the genetic data of 164 L. major isolates from 35 patients in the governorates of Gafsa, Kairouan, and Sidi Bouzid between 2008 and 2012. We used microsatellites, a highly polymorphic DNA repeat, to perform genetic analyses such as population structure, genetic diversity, and migration. Our findings indicate that the L. major population in Tunisia has evolved over the last two decades. We found that the L. major population from Sidi Bouzid is genetically different from the one in Kairouan, and both are distinct from the one from Gafsa. We also detected recent migration between the populations from Gafsa and Kairouan, but not between Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid. We found that the L. major population from Sidi Bouzid is genetically diverse and has a slightly higher genetic diversity compared to the population from Kairouan. Our results suggest that the outbreak in Kairouan could be the result of the spread of a population from Sidi Bouzid. These findings help to understand the L. major evolution in Tunisia, which is crucial for developing effective control strategies.
This study evaluated the effectiveness of WASH and anthelmintic treatment in reducing helminth infections in HIV-infected adults. The study included 701 participants who provided stool samples for real-time PCR analysis. The study found that deworming treatment was highly effective in reducing the probability of helminth infections, and that WASH resources did not appear to provide substantial additive benefit to chemotherapy. However, among individuals not receiving chemotherapy, there was clear benefit of WASH in reducing the probability of helminth infections. This study highlights the complexity of integrating WASH and chemotherapy strategies to achieve targeted disease control outcomes.
The manuscript "Structural determinants of antibacterial activity in the mannose-specific bacteriocin LlpA" by Kettner and colleagues reports the structural characterization of the mannose-specific bacteriocin LlpA from Pseudomonas putida and its mutant derivatives. The authors show that the bacteriocin forms dimers, with one protomer binding to the sugar ligand and the other protomer forming a pore in the lipid bilayer. They further show that mutations in the C-terminal domain of the protein that disrupt the sugar-binding site also disrupt the pore-forming ability, while mutations in the N-terminal domain that disrupt the sugar-binding site have no effect on the pore-forming ability. The authors propose that LlpA acts as a mannose-specific bacteriocin and that its antibacterial activity is dependent on its ability to bind to the mannose ligand and form a pore in the lipid bilayer. The manuscript provides important structural insights into the mechanism of action of LlpA and its mutant derivatives and may have implications for the development of new antibacterial agents.
The bacterium Bacillus subtilis produces endospores that are extremely resistant to stress. Endospore formation involves a complex process that is tightly controlled by various proteins. Among these are the SpoIIIA and SpoIIQ proteins, which form a complex that is essential for σG activation, a key step in the process of endospore maturation. In this study, the authors show that the SpoIIIA and SpoIIQ proteins are part of a novel secretion apparatus that channels proteins and metabolites from the mother cell into the forespore. The authors provide evidence that the SpoIIIA-SpoIIQ complex functions as a nutrient-feeding tube that nurtures the forespore in its final stages of development. They show that the SpoIIIA-SpoIIQ complex is essential for σG activity, and that σG is activated by a delay in transcription that allows the complex to assemble. The authors also show that the complex is required to maintain forespore physiology and that it serves as a surveillance device that couples gene expression to proper engulfment. Finally, the authors demonstrate that the complex functions as a secretion apparatus that channels nutrients and osmolytes into the forespore. Overall, the study provides insight into the complex process of endospore maturation and the role of the SpoIIIA-SpoIIQ complex in this process.
We presented a study that aimed to identify genetic loci associated with blood pressure in the French population. We used a large dataset of 14,946 individuals from the French Biogeographic Health Survey (Santé Biogéographique) with genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data. We applied a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using linear regression to identify loci associated with both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. We also performed a meta-analysis of our data with data from the UK Biobank, a large population-based study of 500,000 individuals. Our study identified six novel loci associated with blood pressure, as well as confirming previously identified loci. These findings have important implications for understanding the genetic basis of blood pressure and its health consequences.
Our study presents the results of a genome-scale analysis of gene expression and growth rate measurements of 12,690 genes in 60 human cell lines. We define three measures, nPI, cPI, and dPI, that quantify the differential proliferation of genes in cancer cells. We find that dPI is the most relevant measure, capturing the essential differences between cancer and non-cancerous cells. We show that dPI is highly predictive of gene essentiality in cancer and is associated with pathways involved in ribosome biogenesis, protein synthesis, and spliceosome activity. We further identify several genes with high dPI values that are potential targets for selective anti-cancer therapies. Our analysis identifies potential targets for anti-cancer therapies, including translation initiation factors, spliceosome components, and DNA replication and repair factors. These findings provide a valuable resource for researchers and clinicians interested in identifying new targets for selective anti-cancer therapies.
Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a parasitic disease caused by the larvae of the tapeworm Echinococcus. It is a common infection in many parts of the world, especially in developing countries. While CE can affect any organ of the body, it most commonly affects the liver, lungs, and brain. Cardiac echinococcosis is a rare form of the disease that affects the heart. In this article, we review a series of 11 patients with cardiac and/or endovascular echinococcosis who were treated at a hospital in Madrid, Spain. The patients ranged in age from 9 to 68 years old and were all Spanish or Bulgarian. Most of the patients were asymptomatic or had only mild symptoms, but some developed serious complications, such as pulmonary embolism and cardiac tamponade. Treatment for cardiac echinococcosis typically involves surgery to remove the cysts, followed by anti-parasitic medication to kill any remaining larvae. Despite this aggressive treatment, the prognosis for cardiac echinococcosis can be poor, with mortality rates ranging from 20% to 100%. However, with early diagnosis and prompt treatment, the prognosis can improve. It is important for doctors to be aware of the signs and symptoms of cardiac echinococcosis, as well as the potential complications, in order to make an accurate diagnosis and provide appropriate treatment.
In the work of Fouchard et al., the authors present a study on the impact of the toxin-repressing protein TirS on host defense and virulence in Staphylococcus aureus. They found that TirS is a bacterial TIR homolog protein that is produced by the bacterial strain in the context of fusidic acid resistance. The authors also showed that TirS is able to modulate the immune response to S. aureus infection by reducing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages. They also demonstrated that the deletion of tirS in S. aureus led to an increase in virulence in a mouse model of S. aureus infection. Their findings suggest that TirS plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of S. aureus infections and could be a potential target for therapeutic interventions.
We used computer algorithms to compare the embryonic gene expression patterns of two different species of flies and identified a set of genes that have distinct patterns of expression. We used this information to investigate possible differences in the developmental trajectories of these two species. We found that the mosquito's embryo has a different extraembryonic membrane than that of the fly.
The bacteria Haemophilus ducreyi and Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue are major causes of leg ulcers in children in Africa. A study was done to examine if children living in households with these infections were also infected. DNA of these bacteria was found in the skin of children who were living in households with a leg ulcer case. The study also found that flies and bed linens may also be a source of these infections. The study suggests that these bacteria may be passed from person to person through contact with skin or fomites, such as bed linens and flies. Effective measures to prevent transmission of these bacteria should be developed, including effective wound management and skin hygiene practices.
The International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) Education Committee Curriculum Task Force has developed a set of bioinformatics core competencies, which have been refined over time through community engagement. This report describes the current competencies and provides use cases illustrating how they are being applied in diverse training contexts. The competencies provide a framework for defining, refining, and assessing bioinformatics training mechanisms. They are not a prescription for a specific set of curricula or curricular standards. The use of the competencies can help educators design, refine, and evaluate their own training programs, regardless of their goals or student populations. The taskforce plans to provide an explicit mapping between the competencies and the CourseSource framework tailored for life scientists, which will be used to provide an explicit mapping of courses to competencies for each of the personas in the ISCB competency framework.
The life cycle of parasitic worms involves infecting and reproducing inside a host. These worms typically have several infective stages that require specific cues from the host environment to trigger activation. One such infective stage is the third-stage larvae (L3) of the parasitic nematode Strongyloides stercoralis. In this study, the authors used RNA sequencing to examine the gene expression patterns of L3i, a developmental stage of the infective L3 larvae that arrests in the environment before encountering a host. By comparing the gene expression patterns of L3i with those of other developmental stages of S. stercoralis, the authors identified several signaling pathways that may be involved in regulating L3i arrest and activation. These pathways include the insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) pathway, the TGF-β pathway, the cGMP pathway, and the calcium/calmodulin pathway. The authors also identified several genes that may be involved in regulating the levels of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in L3i. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms that regulate the developmental arrest and activation of infective larvae of S. stercoralis.
In this article, the authors describe the formation of UNR-NR (unconventional nuclear-cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein-like structures) during bacterial infection and their characteristics. They show that CdtB, a toxin secreted by H. hepaticus bacteria, triggers the formation of these structures in the nuclei of infected mouse hepatocytes. The authors also show that these structures are associated with DNA damage and repair, as well as with the regulation of mRNA translation and decay. They further show that the formation of UNR-NR is not restricted to bacteria and can also be observed in cancer cells. Overall, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms of bacterial genotoxicity and highlights the importance of UNR-NR in the response to DNA damage in both normal and cancerous cells.
The study described above is an interesting exploration of the long-term effects of leprosy on the facial bones of patients. The authors used 3D-CT images to evaluate the maxillary bone of ten patients with a history of leprosy and ten control subjects. They found that the maxillary bone was deformed in all of the leprosy patients, with regression of the anterior nasal spine and alveolar process being the most common deformities. These deformities were also observed in paleopathological studies of leprosy patients, suggesting that they are likely caused by the disease. The study highlights the importance of considering the history of the disease when evaluating maxillary deformities and the potential use of 3D-CT imaging in reconstructive surgery for leprosy-related facial deformities.
The article "Assessing Adaptive Nonlinearities in Inner Ear Neurons Using Auditory Stimulation with Background Noise" by C. N. Lin et al. provides an interesting and important analysis of the changes in auditory nonlinearities that occur as a result of exposure to background noise. This is a critical issue for understanding the effect of noise on hearing and for developing effective hearing aids and other interventions. The authors use a novel approach to model the adaptation of nonlinearities in inner ear neurons to background noise by measuring the changes in the gain and frequency response of these neurons as the level of background noise increases. The authors find that the adaptation of these neurons to background noise depends on the frequency of the background noise, with higher frequencies causing greater adaptation than lower frequencies. The authors also find that the adaptation of these neurons to background noise can be described by a nonlinear function that is well-suited for modeling auditory responses. Overall, this is a well-written and well-executed article that provides important insights into the adaptation of auditory nonlinearities to background noise.
The study investigates the changes in the yeast interactome induced by heat shock stress. The authors find that the interactome becomes more modular and that its structure becomes more heterogeneous after heat shock. They also observe a decrease in the community centrality of some key proteins, which could reflect the disruption of some protein complexes. These changes are expected to affect the functional organization of the cell and could be involved in the adaptation to heat shock stress. The authors provide a detailed and clear description of their methods and results, making the study accessible to a broad audience.
Chagas disease is a serious and common illness in Latin America. It can lead to heart disease and arrhythmias. Amiodarone is a medicine that is often used to treat arrhythmias. We did a review of studies to see if amiodarone is effective and safe for people with Chagas disease. We found that amiodarone may be effective for reducing arrhythmias, but there is not enough evidence to know if it reduces the risk of death or other important outcomes. There are some risks associated with amiodarone that we know about, such as corneal microdeposits, gastrointestinal events, and drug discontinuation. We also found that there are other treatments that may be effective for people with Chagas disease. These findings can help doctors and patients make informed decisions about their treatment options.
The purpose of this study was to determine the seasonality of dengue fever in rural Ecuador. We analyzed dengue diagnoses at two hospitals from 2009 to 2016 and found that dengue cases increased during the summer months, with a peak in March each year. We also found that dengue diagnoses were more likely on weekdays and less likely on holidays. In addition, we found that dengue diagnoses were more likely if the absolute minimum temperature was above 19 degrees Celsius or below 21 degrees Celsius. Our findings suggest that dengue seasonality in rural Ecuador is driven by temperature, and that climate patterns may vary in other areas of Ecuador.
We describe the generation of mice that constitutively express high levels of a human RIG-I-like receptor (RdRP) in the innate immune system. These mice exhibit increased type I interferon (IFN) production and activation of antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in response to a variety of viruses. We also report that mice expressing the RdRP transgene have improved protection against lethal viral infection compared to mice expressing a catalytically inactive form of the protein. Our studies provide a basis for the development of novel antiviral strategies that target the innate immune system.
The current study investigated the replication of two plant RNA viruses, Tomato Yellow Leaf Curl Virus (TYLCV) and Cucumber Mosaic Virus (CMV), in two host plants, Nicotiana tabacum and Capsicum annuum. The study examined the effect of viral dose on the number of foci of primary infection and mixed-genotype infections in the inoculated leaf. The results showed that the replication of both viruses was dose-dependent in both host plants. The study also investigated the impact of host genotype on viral replication and found that the replication of TYLCV and CMV was higher in N. tabacum than in C. annuum. The study also tested the stability of the reporter genes in passaged virions and found that they were retained for several passages. The study also investigated the sensitivity of the assay for detecting the presence of TYLCV and CMV in mixed viral populations and found that it was able to detect both viruses in a 1∶10 ratio. The study concludes that the replication of both viruses is dose-dependent in both host plants and that the impact of host genotype on viral replication is greater for TYLCV than for CMV. The study also provides evidence for the stability of the reporter genes in passaged virions.
The study by VanRaden et al. describes a new statistical method called Sparse Bayesian Regression (SBR) for analyzing genetic control of gene expression. The method is designed to identify common eQTLs that affect gene expression across multiple tissues. The authors compared SBR with several other methods and showed that SBR outperforms other methods in finding complex eQTLs. The authors also introduced a multivariate extension of the method called Sparse Bayesian Multivariate Regression (SBMR) that performs even better than SBR in identifying complex eQTLs. The authors provided an implementation of the method called Evolutionary Stochastic Search (ESS), which is an efficient algorithm for performing the required computations. The authors also provided simulation studies and real data analysis to support their findings. Overall, the study provides a useful statistical tool for analyzing gene expression data and identifying common genetic control points.
The authors describe a computational model for the apoptosis pathway, which incorporates a novel switch mechanism for the Bax/Bcl-2 complex. The model is based on the canonical pathway of apoptosis, and includes a wide range of signaling proteins and pathways. The authors show that the model is robust to variations in the concentrations of several key proteins and reaction rates, and that it can accurately predict the apoptotic response of HeLa cells to a variety of stimuli. The authors also show that the model can predict the effects of various perturbations, such as gene knockdowns and overexpression, on the apoptotic response. These results provide a useful tool for understanding the complex signaling pathways involved in apoptosis, and for developing therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating these pathways.
The InlP virulence factor from Listeria monocytogenes is a member of the Inl family of bacterial virulence factors that bind to host cell proteins and modulate host cell signaling. InlP is thought to facilitate L. monocytogenes infection of the placenta. The protein sequence of InlP is highly conserved across species, and it has been shown to bind to the host cell protein afadin. Here, we used a series of techniques, including immunoprecipitation and yeast two-hybrid screening, to further characterize the interactions between InlP and afadin, and the role of these interactions in L. monocytogenes infection. We found that InlP binds to afadin through the LRR5 domain, and that this interaction is important for modulating the ability of L. monocytogenes to generate actin-based protrusions through the basal face of the epithelial cell monolayer, which is a critical step in the process of infection of the fetus.
In this study, we have conducted a comprehensive analysis of the protein expression profile of Treponema pallidum, the causative agent of syphilis. We detected 557 proteins expressed during in vivo experimental rabbit infection using complementary mass spectrometry detection techniques. We detected 116 proteins that are predicted to be localized to the membrane, and 16 proteins have evidence supporting outer membrane localization. We also detected 40 virulence factors, including eight of the 12 members of the tpr gene family that are known to be involved in immune evasion. Our findings provide valuable insights into the protein expression profile of T. pallidum during in vivo infection, which can help us to better understand the biology of this important bacterial pathogen.
This article presents a comparative NMR analysis of the conformational equilibria of PKA RIα in the absence and presence of cAMP. By comparing the dynamic profiles of PKA RIα constructs with different degrees of conformational freedom, the authors identify two distinct types of conformational selection processes that control the cAMP-dependent activation of PKA RIα. These conformational selection processes are suggested to occur through the interplay of cAMP binding and inter-domain interactions, which lead to a marked dynamic difference between the two CBDs of PKA RIα. The authors propose a double conformational selection model that explains the effect of cAMP on the conformational equilibria of PKA RIα. They also demonstrate the importance of inter-domain interactions in the cAMP-dependent activation of PKA RIα and suggest that they contribute to the high affinity of the cAMP-bound state of PKA RIα. This work provides valuable insights into the conformational selection processes that underlie the activation of PKA RIα and may contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the dysregulation of PKA in disease.
Macrophages are white blood cells that play a crucial role in the immune system. They are found in large numbers in the bone marrow and spleen. Macrophages are known to be essential for the clearance of pathogens and the maintenance of tissue homeostasis. They can be divided into two types: M1 and M2. M1 macrophages are pro-inflammatory, while M2 macrophages are anti-inflammatory. In this study, we investigated the role of ISG15+/+ and ISG15-/- macrophages in the inflammatory process. We found that ISG15+/+ macrophages are more effective at killing intracellular pathogens than ISG15-/- macrophages. Additionally, we discovered that ISG15+/+ macrophages are more effective at reducing inflammation than ISG15-/- macrophages. These findings suggest that ISG15+/+ macrophages are better at maintaining tissue homeostasis than ISG15-/- macrophages.
HIV-1 is a virus that attacks human immune cells, leading to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). HIV-1 uses the protein Vpu to degrade the host cell receptor CD4, which is essential for HIV-1 entry into the host cell. In this study, we used biochemical techniques to identify a specific residue in Vpu that is required for its function. We found that a mutation in this residue (S61) affects the ubiquitination of Vpu and its ability to degrade CD4. This mutation also affects the release of mature HIV-1 particles from infected cells. Our findings suggest that this residue is involved in the regulation of Vpu-mediated CD4 degradation, which is important for the efficient replication of HIV-1.
This study set out to understand the coordination between tissue development and whole-body development, focusing on the wing discs of Drosophila melanogaster larvae. The authors found that wing disc development is not strictly synchronized with whole-body development, but that there are specific milestones at which developmental events in wing discs and the body are aligned. These milestones are moulting, pupariation, and wandering, which occur at different times in larvae reared at different temperatures or with altered insulin signaling. The authors developed a staging scheme that captures the developmental progression of wing discs and is able to classify wing discs from larvae with different developmental backgrounds. They used this staging scheme to reveal that while wing discs do not develop in perfect synchrony with the body, they do develop in a coordinated way that allows them to produce the correct wing pattern. This study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying tissue development and whole-body coordination.
The endosome-associated protein Did2 is essential for hyphal growth in filamentous fungi. Loss of Did2 leads to severe growth defects, likely due to the lack of motor protein recruitment to early endosomes.
In this study, the authors present a comprehensive characterization of the add riboswitch from V. vulnificus, including its ability to bind adenine both in the presence and absence of transcription. The authors find that the add riboswitch is regulated by a terminator hairpin, which is highly stable in the absence of adenine and disrupts the aptamer domain. In the presence of adenine, the terminator is transcribed, allowing the aptamer domain to be accessible for ligand binding. The authors also find that the add riboswitch does not require coupling between transcription and translation, as it is able to bind ligand even when the terminator is not transcribed. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of riboswitch regulation.
Polynucleotide Phosphorylase (PNPase) has been identified as a possible candidate for protein translation in bacteria. PNPase is a ribonuclease that can remove nucleotides from the 5′ end of RNA molecules, and it is present in many organisms. It has been suggested that PNPase may play a role in the initiation of protein synthesis in bacteria by acting on a class of RNA molecules known as 2- to 4-nt RNAs.
The parental genome dosage of plants and mammals determines if an imprinted gene is expressed or not. This phenomenon, called "deregulation of imprinting," has been reported in mammals, but it was unknown if it happened in plants. Our study shows that deregulation of imprinting is not limited to mammals and occurs in plants as well. We studied four imprinted genes and found that parental dosage imbalance causes loss of imprinting in three of them. Our results suggest that the reason for this phenomenon is complex and may involve changes in DNA methylation or the activity of small non-coding RNAs. These findings support the idea that imprinting is a variable trait, and it can evolve in response to changes in the environment or the genome.
We provide an empirical study of the relationship between the structure and dynamics of virtual brains and their spectral properties. First, we constructed virtual brains using a connectivity matrix generated by a hierarchical algorithm. Then, we computed the power spectrum of the oscillatory dynamics of the virtual brains, and investigated its properties. We found that the virtual brains are similar to real brains in terms of their oscillatory dynamics, and that their structure has a significant influence on their spectral properties. Specifically, we identified a subset of virtual brains with spectral properties similar to those of healthy brains, and found that they have certain structural features in common. Our results suggest that the structure of the brain may play a crucial role in its function, and that different brain disorders may have distinct structural and spectral properties.
Hispanics are a diverse group of people with ancestry from multiple different countries. The goal of this study was to use genetics to better understand the ancestry of Hispanics in the United States. We used data from the Million Veteran Program, which includes genetic data and self-reported ancestry information from over a million US military veterans. We first used genetic data to determine the ancestry of Hispanics as a group. We found that Hispanics have a diverse range of ancestry, including European, Native American, and African ancestry. We then used principal component analysis to subdivide Hispanics into different ancestry groups. We found that Hispanics can be subdivided into at least four ancestry groups: Central and South Americans, Dominicans and Cubans, Mexicans, and Puerto Ricans. We validated these ancestry groups using a variety of methods, including self-reported ancestry, genetic data, and genome-wide association studies. We also found that Hispanics have a high degree of genetic heterogeneity within each ancestry group.
In this study, the authors investigate the role of the Elp3 subunit of the Elongator complex in regulating chromatin structure and DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly in yeast. They find that Elp3 is essential for DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly and that its loss causes synthetic lethality with other histone acetyltransferase mutants. The authors provide evidence that Elp3 interacts with the PCNA DNA polymerase clamp protein, which is involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. The results of this study suggest that the Elongator complex plays a crucial role in regulating chromatin structure and DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly in yeast.
This study presents a deep learning-based method to perform efficient manual curation of biomedical variant information. The authors trained and tested their method on publications from two publicly available knowledge bases: UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and the GWAS Catalog. They demonstrated that their method achieved a precision of 1,962 out of 1,963 and a recall of 999 out of 1,000 when tested on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot knowledge base. They also achieved a precision of 1,980 out of 1,984 and a recall of 998 out of 1,000 when tested on the GWAS Catalog knowledge base. The authors claim that their method can be used to replace the traditional query-based triage methods of manually curated databases and that it can save curators considerable time in the standard triage process.
To better understand the effects of SQT3-mediated mutations on the electrophysiology of the human heart, a computational study was conducted using three models of atrial tissue: the Grandi model, the Courtemanche-Ramirez-Nattel model, and the Caulfield-Zhuang-Morrison model. The main findings of the study are as follows:
This study investigated the effects of intraperitoneal injection of allogenic adipose-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (ASC) on the course of acute Trypanosoma cruzi infection and cardiac function in infected mice. Mice were infected with a lethal dose of T. cruzi, and then at 3 days post-infection, they were treated with ASC or a control solution. At 30 days post-infection, mice were analyzed for parasitemia, heart inflammation and fibrosis, and cytokine production. ASC significantly decreased blood parasitemia and reduced heart inflammation and fibrosis. Cytokine production was also altered in a way that contributed to reduced inflammation and improved tissue preservation. These findings suggest that ASC could be a useful tool for treating acute T. cruzi infection and improving cardiac function in infected patients.
The Leishmania parasites infect a variety of mammals, including humans, and cause diseases such as leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis has several forms, and some are difficult to treat. The current treatment for leishmaniasis is based on the use of miltefosine. However, the use of this drug is limited because of its toxicity to humans. Therefore, researchers have been working on finding new drugs to treat leishmaniasis. Retro-2 is one such drug that has been shown to be effective against some types of leishmaniasis. In this study, researchers synthesized two analogs of Retro-2 that are more potent against Leishmania parasites. These analogs were able to kill the parasites directly, unlike Retro-2, which only inhibits the retrograde transport of proteins. The researchers also found that these analogs were able to reverse the inhibition of IL-6 production by Leishmania-infected cells.
In this report, we present a combined in silico and in vivo study of the chromatin structure surrounding transcription factor binding sites in the Ly49 gene cluster. By using a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and next-generation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and publicly available datasets, we identified and quantified the transcription factor binding sites for 18 known transcription factors in the Ly49 gene cluster. We also predicted the distribution of nucleosomes around the Ly49 gene cluster by using a machine learning algorithm. To validate our predictions, we performed MNase-seq analysis of the Ly49 gene cluster in mouse NK cells, a cell type known to express Ly49 genes. We found that the chromatin structure around the Ly49 gene cluster is not uniform, with some regions of the cluster displaying a strong preference for being transcribed, while other regions are more likely to be silent. We also found that some transcription factors, including AML-1a, are preferentially bound to regions that are more likely to be transcribed, while other transcription factors appear to bind uniformly across the cluster. Our analysis also revealed that AML-1a is particularly sensitive to steric hindrance by nucleosomes, a finding that was validated in vitro by ChIP-qPCR assays. This suggests that AML-1a may play a key role in regulating Ly49 gene expression by interfering with nucleosome occupancy.
Cell division is a highly regulated process that requires precise control of the activities of several cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and their regulatory subunits. We have found that CDK4 is phosphorylated at a conserved site, threonine 172, and that this phosphorylation is regulated by cyclin-CDK complexes other than CDK4-cyclin D complexes. This finding suggests a novel mechanism for the regulation of CDK4 and raises questions about the current understanding of the activation and regulation of CDKs.
We report on the identification of DUET (Double of EARLY 1) as a meiotic-specific gene with a key function in meiotic prophase. DUET encodes a PHD finger-containing protein that binds H3K4me2. We show that DUET is essential for the onset of TDM1 expression during male meiosis. DUET loss of function results in male meiotic failure. DUET is essential for meiotic exit, and loss of function leads to abnormal cytokinesis. DUET binds to H3K4me2 in meiosis. We show that DUET is targeted to the DUET-specific promoter of TDM1 through its PHD finger. DUET is essential for male meiosis and possibly for sexual differentiation.
Using a combination of proteomics, genetics, and microarray analyses, we have identified a nuclear-enriched subset of transcripts that are uniquely expressed in the presence of FXTAS-associated toxic RNA. This subset of transcripts is significantly enriched for genes involved in immune response, defense, and stress response pathways. We also identify Rm62 as a novel interactor for fragile X mental retardation protein 1 (Fmr1), a protein that is dysregulated in FXTAS. Finally, we show that Rm62, Fmr1, and Hsp70 act in concert to suppress fragile X premutation repeat toxicity. These results suggest that fragile X premutation repeats impair nuclear export of transcripts that are important for stress response and defense mechanisms, leading to toxicity.
We have shown that the Psl polysaccharide of P . aeruginosa forms a matrix that facilitates surface adherence and maintains biofilm architecture during a biofilm developmental cycle. Moreover, Psl is a key scaffolding component of the P . aeruginosa biofilm matrix, a property that likely plays a critical role in P . aeruginosa persistence. The Psl matrix does not appear to overlap with the eDNA matrix, but appears to coordinate activities to maintain the biofilm structure. During the Psl matrix formation, Psl accumulates in the center of the microcolony where the bacteria undergo cell death and lysis. The Psl matrix is also important for maintaining the biofilm architecture, since it encases the bacterial cells, and this is promoted by the helical distribution of Psl on individual cells. This study provides valuable insights into the function of the Psl polysaccharide and highlights the importance of Psl in P . aeruginosa biofilm development and maintenance.
In this study, the authors aimed to investigate the concordance of genomic aberrations between primary pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) tumours, their corresponding patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) and patient-derived organoids (PDOs), using whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data. They found that the genomic data from the PDXs and PDOs were largely concordant with the primary tumours for structural variation (SV) and copy number variation (CNV) events, but less so for single nucleotide variants (SNVs). They also observed differences in clonality between primary tumours, PDXs, and PDOs. Overall, the results suggest that PDXs and PDOs can accurately model the genomic aberrations of PDAC, but may not fully capture the clonal architecture of the primary tumour.
The genetic association study (GAS) is a powerful method to identify risk variants associated with complex diseases. However, the traditional GAS approach has some limitations, such as low replication, poor performance, and difficulty in identifying multiple risk variants. In this study, we develop a four-stage approach for GAS based on genome-wide association studies (GWAS). The four stages are selection of SNPs, replication of SNPs, meta-analysis of SNPs, and selection of SNPs for replication. We first select SNPs based on significant association with the disease in GWAS and select additional SNPs to improve the power of the study. Then, we replicate the selected SNPs in an independent cohort and perform meta-analysis to evaluate the association of SNPs with the disease. Finally, we select SNPs with significant association in both the discovery and replication cohorts for further replication. This four-stage approach can help overcome the limitations of traditional GAS and provide better performance.
Cryptococcus neoformans is a fungus that causes life-threatening meningitis in people with weakened immune systems. We have studied a large number of C. neoformans isolates from patients in South Africa. We found that the fungus is highly diverse in South Africa and that differences in clinical and molecular characteristics of the fungus are associated with clinical outcome in human disease. Our findings highlight the importance of understanding the molecular basis of disease in order to develop new treatments and improve patient outcomes.
The development of a new signal transduction pathway in Candida albicans is described. The pathway is part of the response to white-opaque switching and biofilm formation. The signal transduction pathway is initiated by a cell wall protein, Tec1, which binds to a specific DNA sequence and recruits a complex of transcription factors, including the transcription factor Cph1, to activate target genes. The pathway is conserved in other fungal species, including S. cerevisiae, and has implications for biofilm-related diseases.
We have analyzed the patterns of synonymous mutations in prokaryotic genomes and found that GC rich genomes show a large excess of GC to AT mutations. This pattern is consistent with selection for increased GC content, and is not due to sequencing errors, gene conversion, recombination, or mutation bias. We have also investigated the mechanism underlying this pattern and found that selection for increased GC content acts to increase both the GC content of individual genomes and the GC content of the population as a whole. The GC content of individual genomes is determined by the effective population size, the mutation rate, and the GC content of the genome. The GC content of the population is determined by the mutation rate and the GC content of individual genomes. We have also investigated the relationship between GC content and GC biased gene conversion, and found that GC biased gene conversion does not explain the excess of GC to AT mutations.
The article describes a study that created maps of soil-transmitted helminth (STH) prevalence in Kenya using data from school-based surveys. The authors found that despite high prevalence of STH across the country, there are pockets of low prevalence in the highlands and coastal areas, where transmission is likely to be more seasonal. The study highlights the importance of considering ecological and environmental factors when mapping helminth prevalence and the challenges of defining areas where transmission is too low to require control. The article concludes by emphasizing the need for more accurate and up-to-date maps of STH prevalence to guide control efforts.
This article describes a study that examined the role of a subset of T cells called invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells in controlling Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. The authors used an in vitro model to study the mechanisms of immunity against intracellular Mtb infection by purified macrophages and splenocytes from immunocompetent and immunodeficient mice. The authors found that macrophages infected with Mtb stimulated the production of interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) by non-immune splenocytes, which suppressed Mtb replication in vitro. This effect was dependent on iNKT cells, as the production of IFN-γ was abolished in CD1d−/− and Jα281−/− mice, which lack the iNKT cell subset. The authors also found that the inhibitory effect of IFN-γ on Mtb replication was mediated by nitric oxide (NO) production. The authors used a purified iNKT cell line to confirm that iNKT cells can directly suppress Mtb infection in vitro. The authors further demonstrated that iNKT cells can provide protection against low dose aerosol Mtb infection in vivo. This study provides important insights into the role of iNKT cells in controlling Mtb infection and suggests that iNKT cells may be a potential target for adjuvant therapy to enhance the efficacy of BCG vaccination.
We show that the Tgl enzyme is recruited to the cortex/inner coat interface of spore formation by a substrate-dependent mechanism. We propose that Tgl is recruited to the cortex/inner coat interface and specifically cross-links the Q-side of the substrate C30 . This reaction is dependent on the interaction between the K-side of Tgl and the Q-side of C30 . Thus, the localization of Tgl at the cortex/inner coat interface is dependent on the docking of C30 to Tgl, followed by the interaction of the K-side of Tgl with the Q-side of C30 to form the acyl-enzyme intermediate. This mechanism controls the localization of Tgl and limits its activity to the cortex/inner coat interface, preventing its activity in other regions of the coat. This substrate-dependent localization mechanism ensures that Tgl can efficiently cross-link the Q-side of C30 and is recruited to the cortex/inner coat interface, without affecting the formation of other coat structures.
The current study provides a comprehensive spatial analysis of the risk of Opisthorchis viverrini infection in a large-scale, southern Lao PDR province. The study shows that infection risk is significantly associated with age, education attainment, occupation, and water-related behaviors, as well as spatial factors such as elevation, forest cover, and proximity to water bodies. The study identifies clusters of high-risk areas, which are located in the central-eastern part of the province, near mountain ranges, and along the Mekong River. These areas are characterized by high prevalence of O. viverrini infection, low access to sanitation facilities, and high consumption of raw fish. The study also demonstrates the importance of spatial factors in predicting the risk of O. viverrini infection, and suggests that spatial data analysis should be integrated into epidemiological studies of this parasite. The findings of this study can be used to guide the development of targeted prevention and control strategies for O. viverrini infection in Lao PDR.
This study focused on the distribution of mosquito breeding habitats in the city of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The authors found that drains are the most common breeding site for both Anopheles and Culex mosquitoes, and that these sites are associated with low levels of vegetation and high levels of waste accumulation. The study highlights the importance of maintaining drains as part of an integrated vector management approach, particularly in urban areas with high levels of human-made habitats.
Dengue virus (DENV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes a severe flu-like illness called dengue. The virus has four serotypes, and a person can be infected by more than one serotype during their lifetime. The treatment for dengue is mainly supportive, and there is no specific antiviral medication for dengue. However, some drugs that are used to treat other infections have been studied for their potential to treat dengue, and some have shown promise in laboratory and animal studies. One of these drugs is metformin, which is used to treat diabetes. Metformin has been shown to inhibit the replication of DENV in vitro, and it has also been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties, which may be helpful in treating dengue. Another drug that has been studied for its potential to treat dengue is compound C, which inhibits the activity of a protein called AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is involved in regulating cellular energy levels, and it has been found to be activated in dengue-infected cells. Inhibition of AMPK activity by compound C has been shown to reduce the replication of DENV in vitro. Okadaic acid is another drug that has been studied for its potential to treat dengue. Okadaic acid is a protein phosphatase inhibitor, and it has been found to be activated in dengue-infected cells. Inhibition of protein phosphatase activity by okadaic acid has been shown to reduce the replication of DENV in vitro. Lovastatin is a drug that is used to treat high blood pressure and high cholesterol, and it has also been studied for its potential to treat dengue. Lovastatin has been found to inhibit the replication of DENV in vitro. TMPA is a drug that is used to treat high blood pressure, and it has also been studied for its potential to treat dengue. TMPA has been found to reduce the replication of DENV in vitro. In conclusion, these studies suggest that metformin, compound C, okadaic acid, and lovastatin may be useful in the treatment of dengue. However, more studies are needed to determine the effectiveness and safety of these drugs for the treatment of dengue in humans.
The movements of ribosomes during protein translation are governed by a complex energy landscape. To understand how ribosomes traverse this landscape, a bridge between the energy landscape and kinetics is needed. This can be achieved by using dynamic simulations and comparing the predicted kinetics with experimental data. By using a dynamic simulation, it was found that the rate of translocation depends on the energy of the transition state, which is influenced by the structural rearrangements that occur. The simulation also provided insight into the diffusional character of the movements involved during translocation. By comparing the kinetics and energy landscape, it was possible to provide a quantitative bridge between the two. This approach can be expanded to provide a comprehensive understanding of the energy landscape governing protein translation.
This study is the first to report two types of ALK rearrangements in MTC. In addition to the EML4-ALK fusion, which is the most common variant in NSCLC, we discovered a novel GFPT1-ALK fusion in a patient with MTC. The GFPT1-ALK fusion was detected by targeted cancer panel sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and FISH analyses. This study is the largest molecular profiling of MTC to date, and it provides a valuable resource for the future development of molecular-targeted therapies for MTC.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a vector-borne disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. The disease is endemic in many countries in Africa, Asia, and the Americas. In India, the disease is found in the eastern and central states. This study was conducted in West Bengal, India. The study found that 7.9:1 ratio of asymptomatic to symptomatic visceral leishmaniasis cases existed in the area studied. The study also found that 3.9% of asymptomatic cases progressed to symptomatic disease within one year, and 17.85 cases per 1,000 person-years progressed to symptomatic disease. The study also reported that seven cases remained asymptomatic after three years of follow-up. The study concludes that there is a need for long-term prospective studies to understand the natural history of visceral leishmaniasis, particularly among asymptomatic cases.
The present study describes a novel method for identifying chromosomal rearrangements, called gross chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs), in yeast genomes using a new assay called multi-locus probe amplification (MLPA). MLPA is a PCR-based technique that allows researchers to simultaneously monitor the copy number of multiple loci on a single chromosome. The assay was developed by modifying the standard MLPA protocol to include telomeric, centromeric, and chromosomal arm-specific probes. By amplifying these probes, researchers can identify the presence of GCRs that are associated with duplications of chromosomal arms. The study demonstrated that GCRs occur frequently in yeast genomes and that the incidence of GCRs increases in mutants with defects in DNA repair or replication. The study also showed that GCRs can be used as a marker for the identification of genomic regions that are prone to rearrangements. Overall, the study provides a new tool for investigating the mechanisms of genomic rearrangements in yeast and other organisms.
The goal of protein docking is to predict the structure of a complex between two macromolecules, given the structure of one of them. We study a new approach for the global search of the space of docked conformations, called Semi-Definite programming-based Underestimation (SDU). It consists of a rigid body docking followed by a local minimization in an alternative parameterization of the space of docked conformations. Rigid body docking samples the space of docked conformations using a search algorithm based on a pairwise RMSD distance metric. Local minimization is performed in a parameterization of the space of docked conformations in terms of 5 angles and a center-to-center distance, using a free energy model. The model is based on the Atomic Contact Potential, the electrostatic potential, and a modified Van der Waals potential. The modified Van der Waals potential incorporates a scaling factor λ, which is dynamically adjusted during the minimization process to improve the quality of the underestimator. This allows for fast convergence to a good approximation of the global minimum of the free energy. We have applied this approach to the problem of protein–protein docking using the rigid body docking program PIPER, and the free energy model has been used to refine the resulting conformations. Results show that the SDU approach yields a substantial improvement in performance over the standard PIPER algorithm, and is also more efficient in terms of computational time.
